<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-One. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch31" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch31">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 151. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_151" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch31"><b>Chapter Thirty-One</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch31"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">The treehouse was a little bit famous—to the kids who knew about it, mostly the kids who lived on Evan’s road. It was just far enough into what they thought of as “their” woods that, when they first saw it, they imagined they had discovered something that not even one grown-up knew about. And the treehouse was high enough that they knew climbing up there was not only definitely against the rules, but actually pretty scary.</p>
<p class="TX">Then they got a little older. They talked about it, daring one another to go up. A few did go up, though none got in. There was a locked door, they reported, at the top of a very wobbly climb. The “ladder,” just rough planks of wood nailed to the trunk every few feet, had chipped in <span aria-label=" Page 152. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_152" role="doc-pagebreak"/>many places, and a few spun unexpectedly on their nails. Everyone who went up seemed relieved to be safely back on the ground, with the exception of Demetri Pappas, who lost his grip, got a cut down one leg, and broke an elbow. He was two years older than Evan, and was the chief reason Evan was never tempted to go up there himself. Until now.</p>
<p class="TX">Demetri was a friend, but being two years older, he’d started taking the bus to Grantville Middle two years ago. He was in the middle school orchestra, and came home on the “activities bus,” which got in later. He had a lot of homework and didn’t hang out in the woods much anymore.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan looked up at the tree.</p>
<p class="TX">It was Demetri who had told Evan about the padlock on the treehouse door, after he fell. He had used the exact word Rafe had: <i>padlock</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">“Are you sure you want to do this?” Rafe asked. “My dad says this thing is an attractive nuisance.”</p>
<p class="TX">“What instrument does Demetri play again?” Rafe’s mother taught music to a lot of kids in town.</p>
<p class="TX">“Violin,” Rafe answered.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan felt the outside of his front pants pocket to make sure the keys were still there. He tightened the straps on <span aria-label=" Page 153. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_153" role="doc-pagebreak"/>his backpack. “So his elbow must be fine now. If he plays violin, I mean.”</p>
<p class="TX">“True,” Rafe admitted. “Mom says he’s very good, actually.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan nodded, put one foot on the first nailed-in plank, reached up to the second plank with both hands, tested it for stability, and hoisted himself onto the tree’s trunk.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">There were a few shaky moments, but Evan climbed, plank by plank, until his arms felt weak and his head was almost level with the metal latch on the treehouse door. As promised, there was a padlock on it. A padlock that had foiled every previous climber.</p>
<p class="TX">Grateful for the nice thick branch beside him, Evan braced himself and fished for the keys. “Don’t drop,” he heard himself say. But he wasn’t sure whether he meant “don’t drop the keys,” or “don’t drop to the ground.” It was a long way down.</p>
<p class="TX">He grabbed the lock, which meant both hands were now off the tree itself, making him slightly light-headed with fear, and slid the smaller key into it.</p>
<p class="TX">“It FITS!” he yelled.</p>
<p class="TX">“YAY!” Rafe called back.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 154. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_154" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Evan smiled but didn’t look down. He turned the key and heard a <i>click</i>. The lock popped open.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s unlocked!” he yelled, and then carefully maneuvered the padlock off the latch, shoving it into his pocket. He didn’t want to drop it on Rafe’s head.</p>
<p class="TX">Now all he had to do was open the treehouse door. He had to duck, to let it swing over his head. One arm wrapped around his friend (the sturdy branch), he gripped the corner of the door and yanked.</p>
<p class="TX">And then a few things happened very quickly.</p>
<p class="TX">First, Evan realized that the rusty hinges were not going to hold the door.</p>
<p class="TX">Also first, because these two things actually happened simultaneously, the door tilted dramatically, paused for a second, and then fell to the ground.</p>
<p class="TX">In that one-second pause, Evan had let go of the door so that he would not go down with it. He hugged his branch and heard the door land with a huge crash, followed by what felt like a huge silence.</p>
<p class="TX">Arms trembling, he hung there. “RAFE?”</p>
<p class="TX">More huge silence.</p>
<p class="TX">He looked down. But all he could see were leaves. “<i>RAFE?”</i></p>
<p class="TX">Then he heard Rafe say, “Whoa.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 155. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_155" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“ARE YOU OKAY?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah!” Rafe yelled. “It missed me!”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan felt his heart start up again. “I’m coming down!” he yelled.</p>
<p class="TX">“No, keep going!” Rafe called. “I’m on my way up!”</p>
<p class="TX">“What? No!”</p>
<p class="TX">“What, <i>yes!</i> Expiration date, remember? Get going—I’ll be up there in a minute, and you’d better be out of my way!”</p>
<p class="TX">His eyes now at treehouse-floor level, Evan saw a rough plank floor covered with dirt and broken branches. He reached out, shoved his fingers into a crack between two floor planks, and pulled himself in. Flipping over, he lay there, looking up at … very little: plank walls with light shining in between the cracks, and a big open window covered by a screen of leaves hanging outside it.</p>
<p class="TX">He sat up. Everything felt pretty solid. He took a few deep breaths and was getting to his feet when Rafe’s head popped up at the doorway.</p>
<p class="TX">“That was fast,” Evan said. “I’m really glad you aren’t dead.”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe smiled. “Me too. Pull me in—I need a hug.”</p>
<p class="TX">He wasn’t kidding. When Rafe needed a hug, he asked for a hug. It was one of the things that made Evan understand that Rafe, unlike Rafe’s parents, was mostly fearless.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 156. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_156" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Once he was in, and after the hug, Rafe brushed shards of bark from his shirt. “The ground isn’t as safe as my parents think it is.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">They scoured the treehouse for clues.</p>
<p class="TX">They <i>tried</i> to scour it, anyway. It was just the floor, four thin walls, and a bench built in along one of them, opposite the overgrown window, which filled the treehouse with a strange greenish light.</p>
<p class="TX">No shelves. No boxes. Nothing else to open. Nothing to find.</p>
<p class="TX">“Not seeing any clues,” Rafe said, running his fingers along the rough walls. Rafe had read that sometimes the hands could feel what the eyes missed. He jerked one hand back suddenly, but only to suck on a finger and say, “Ow. Splinter.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Keep looking,” Evan said, examining the underside of the bench. “Maybe there are initials carved somewhere. Look for <i>HGH</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">Squinting at his splinter, Rafe said, “Tell me again why this matters so much?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan hesitated. “I need a suspect,” he said. “A real one.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 157. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_157" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Rafe nodded. Then he said, “Tell me again why you need a suspect?”</p>
<p class="TX">“<i>Because</i>.” Evan took a deep breath and decided to say the words. This was Rafe. He could trust Rafe.</p>
<p class="TX">“Because <i>my dad</i> is a suspect. I think he was working at the library that night. In the basement, where the fire started. But he didn’t do it. I know he didn’t. So I have to figure out who did.” He waited for Rafe to ask more questions.</p>
<p class="TX">But all Rafe said was, “Your dad would never set fire to a library. Not in ten million lifetimes. Anyone who knows him would know that.”</p>
<p class="TX">It felt good to hear Rafe say that. “Yeah, well. Not everyone knows him, I guess.”</p>
<p class="TX">“But you really think H. G. Higgins had something to do with it?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan shrugged. “Maybe. We know he returned a book that day. A book with a picture in it.”</p>
<p class="TX">“But we don’t know that those keys were his. They could have been anyone’s.”</p>
<p class="TX">“The keys opened the treehouse,” Evan said, sitting down on the bench. “So if there’s something up here that points at H. G. Higgins, he’d be a <i>real</i> suspect. I could tell the police, maybe.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 158. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_158" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Yeah. But there’s nothing here.” Rafe paced around the floor in a tight circle, then stopped in front of the single, overgrown window. Leafy branches hung every which way just outside it, blocking the view.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan stared for a second, then jumped up and went to the window. Reaching through the opening, he tried to push aside some of the branches. “Help me.”</p>
<p class="TX">Even using all four of their arms, they managed to clear only a little spy hole through the green. But it was enough. All of Martinville lay below them. They could see most of the town hall, a corner of the school, and the top half of the History House.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan said, “This is it! <i>This</i> is where the Polaroid picture was taken. H. G. Higgins—or someone—was standing right here with the camera.”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe smiled. “The picture was inside the book…”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan reached for his backpack and felt around inside it. “And the book was returned to the library on the day of the fire…”</p>
<p class="TX">“By <i>H. G. Higgins!</i>”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan held up the Polaroid while Rafe did his best to maintain the view through the spy hole without falling through the window.</p>
<p class="TX">“Right here,” Evan said. “I can even see that knot in <span aria-label=" Page 159. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_159" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the picture.” He pointed to a brown spot in the wood just beside the window.</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe squinted at the Polaroid. “Yeah. And whoever’s eye that is. Too bad there isn’t a little more face. This could be anyone.” He held the picture up to Evan’s face. “It could be you!”</p>
<p class="TX">“This <i>proves</i> that H. G. Higgins used to live in Martinville. He was at the library the day it burned down. And then he never came back. He probably lives in New York City with millions of other people and thinks no one will ever find him!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Suspicious,” Rafe said. “But why would he want to burn down a library? He writes <i>books</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m going to find him,” Evan said, ignoring the question. “I’ll make him confess. And then everyone will <i>know</i> my dad didn’t set that fire.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I’ll help you,” Rafe said.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>