<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Eight. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch28" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch28">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 141. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_141" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch28"><b>Chapter Twenty-Eight</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch28"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">The woman who opened the door at the History House was not the same one who gave the tours. Evan felt kind of silly when he realized he had assumed that Mrs. Baker, who also worked at the Martinville Town Hall and ran the Summer Pancake Breakfast at the firehouse, actually <i>lived</i> at the History House. That was silly, like when he was little and thought that his teachers lived at school.</p>
<p class="TX">Instead, he stood in front of a barefooted lady in a long summer dress holding a plate of cheese. She wore a small round pin below her collar that said “AL.” And she did not look happy about opening the door.</p>
<p class="TX">She looked … nervous. And told him he was supposed <span aria-label=" Page 142. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_142" role="doc-pagebreak"/>to make an appointment, which he was almost relieved to hear. He turned to go.</p>
<p class="TX">But then she said, “Wait. How can I help you?”</p>
<p class="TX">He turned back. Now she was smiling. He couldn’t help looking at the cheese, arranged in four small, perfect triangles. Maybe there was a party going on in there? Someone had probably rented the History House for their own private graduation party. That would explain the name tag.</p>
<p class="TX">She followed his gaze, glanced at the plate, and said, “Oh, I’m sorry. I wish I could offer, but someone’s already—this belongs to someone.” She blushed.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan felt himself go red, too, and said, “Oh, no, I don’t want any. But are you having a party? I can come back.”</p>
<p class="TX">She laughed. “A party! No. This is just—” She moved her cheese-plate-hand behind her back. “Never mind. Please come in!”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan had been inside the History House many times over the years—it was always open on town holidays, like the Winter Stroll, when everyone bundled up and walked around the green admiring all the lights people put up on their houses and trees. He and his mom always stopped at the History House, where the old iron chandelier was lit by a lot of small candles, and drank cups of hot cider while his <span aria-label=" Page 143. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_143" role="doc-pagebreak"/>dad waited outside. His dad always said it was too pretty out to come inside.</p>
<p class="TX">And Mr. O’Neal had brought them here for a Tuesday Tour, even though they’d already gone in fourth grade, and also in second grade. But Evan didn’t mind—he loved seeing the way people in Martinville lived a hundred and fifty years ago—the rooms lit only by candles, pitchers and basins in the bedrooms for washing, big clunky wooden beds with beautiful quilts on them, and the kitchen where people had once cooked their meals inside the massive fireplace, which had an iron hook to hang the pots on. Each dish had its own slot in the wooden rack that hung on the wall. The cups hung on their hooks. There was something peaceful about all of it.</p>
<p class="TX">Now, from where he stood on the porch, Evan could see into the two front rooms, one of which was a cozy living room with a fireplace, a small sofa, and two soft chairs. The other room was mostly empty, except for a wooden table with chairs around it. This was where his class had gathered to listen to Mrs. Baker talk about the history of Martinville. She’d spread out some pictures and old papers on the table, and they all took turns looking. But not touching. Mrs. Baker had been very clear about that.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 144. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_144" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Today, the table was bare and gleaming, and Al the cheese lady was pulling out a chair for him. He took off his backpack and sat carefully with it in his lap. She wasn’t looking at him, but she wasn’t <i>not</i> looking at him. It was a little strange.</p>
<p class="TX">“Now, what sort of book are you after?” she asked.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh. I’m not—<i>after</i>—a book,” Evan said. “I thought there might be some old pictures here, that I could look at. Of the old library. Or maybe some newspaper articles, from back when it burned down?”</p>
<p class="TX">The cheese woman froze.</p>
<p class="TX">“I won’t hurt them,” he added. “I mean, I won’t mess anything up.”</p>
<p class="TX">She unfroze. “Don’t worry about that. In fact, you look like a very careful person. And yes, there is a box of things, clippings and such. Can you wait right here? Will you be all right alone for a minute?”</p>
<p class="TX">When she came back, she had a pair of eyeglasses hanging by a thin chain around her neck and a cardboard box in her hands.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">A half hour later, Evan was partway home, holding his journal tightly to his side. He hadn’t wanted to put it in his backpack, because that would have meant letting it out of his sight. And he could not do that.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 145. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_145" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Inside his head, he could <i>hear</i> the words he had copied from the newspaper clipping, almost as if they were screaming at him:</p>
<p class="TX"><i>The fire warden has determined that the tragic fire started in the basement. The police are questioning a young library intern, who was the last person known to have been in the basement before the fire broke out. His name is withheld here due to his age.</i></p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The road home felt much, much longer than usual.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>