<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twelve. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch12" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch12">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 47. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_47" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch12"><b>Chapter Twelve</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch12"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">“It’s called a <i>Polaroid</i> picture,” Evan’s mother told him at breakfast the next morning. “I haven’t seen one in a long time. Polaroids were the first instant cameras. Load the film, push a button, and your picture pops out the front!” She smiled. “But this one’s a little bit like the world’s worst selfie, isn’t it?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah, it is,” Evan said. It was.</p>
<p class="TX">The picture in her hand showed what looked like an accidental corner of someone’s face—half an eye and a little bit of the someone’s glasses. In the distance, a tiny town, surrounded by red and orange trees. It had been taken in the fall, from somewhere high up, as if the photographer had been standing on a hilltop. Or maybe through a window?</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 48. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_48" role="doc-pagebreak"/>His mom held it at arm’s length and squinted. “This could be Martinville, don’t you think? I think that’s town hall.”</p>
<p class="TX">One of the buildings <i>did</i> look like their town hall. But it wasn’t quite Martinville, Evan thought. Something was off.</p>
<p class="TX">“Too small to tell for sure,” his mom said. “Where’d you find this?” She handed the picture back.</p>
<p class="TX">“It was in one of those little free library books.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Really? How mysterious.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Where do you think all those books came from?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Someone’s attic, I’m guessing. Finish that milk.”</p>
<p class="TX">Why, Evan wondered, downing his milk, would someone have an attic full of random library books that were returned by different people on the same day? He stuffed two bumpy apples into his lunch bag.</p>
<p class="TX">“Last Tuesday of fifth grade!” His mom flopped dramatically into a chair. “Boy, that went fast. It feels like I was picking you up from kindergarten only yesterday. You really loved that plastic castle in the kindergarten playground. You spent <i>hours</i> in there, remember? I’d have to lure you out with a cookie or something.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I know, Mom.” He bent to give her a quick goodbye hug. She’d been counting down to graduation for a month, and he wished she would stop. It made him think about next year: the school bus, and middle school in Grantville, <span aria-label=" Page 49. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_49" role="doc-pagebreak"/>with new teachers and all those kids he had never met. Everything he <i>didn’t</i> want to think about.</p>
<p class="TX">He’d never say it to anyone, but sometimes Evan wanted time to slow down. Or maybe they could add a sixth grade to Martinville Elementary? And Mr. O’Neal could teach it. And he and Rafe would have desks right next to each other, even though in real life teachers always put them on opposite sides of the classroom.</p>
<p class="TX">None of that would happen. It was what his dad called wishful thinking. Evan let the screen door bang behind him. When his dad heard the door bang in the morning, he always called out from wherever he was (usually his office in the cellar, which had a small window onto the driveway): “See you later, kid!” or “Have a good one, Ev!”</p>
<p class="TX">Not today.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan broke into a run at the end of their driveway. By the time he reached his magnolia tree, he was sweating and had saved up seven minutes. He threw down his backpack, drank half the water in his water bottle, and reached for his journal. But he surprised himself by pulling out <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i> instead.</p>
<p class="TX">The night before, he had read the first three chapters: <i>Setting</i>, <i>Tone</i>, and <i>Protagonists</i>. These turned out to be pretty good “falling asleep” chapters. But Chapter Four was called <span aria-label=" Page 50. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_50" role="doc-pagebreak"/><i>Antagonists</i>, which sounded more interesting. (And <i>Clues</i> was Chapter Five.) Evan studied the circulation card again, and the only name on it: <i>H. G. Higgins</i>, written in big, curly letters.</p>
<p class="TX">Ten minutes later, he looked at his watch and jumped up—now he would have to run again. And he’d forgotten to eat his apples.</p>
<p class="TX">He was about to tie on his imaginary cape when an image rose up in his mind: a detective’s cap, like the one Sherlock Holmes wore.</p>
<p class="TX">That cape really <i>was</i> too small.</p>
<p class="TX">Instead, he drew his thumbnail down the middle of his forehead, adjusting his (imagined) cap. The gesture felt strangely natural. Evan smiled. And began to run.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1S">At his desk, Evan got comfortable, opened his journal, and ripped out a page as neatly as he could. He had decided, at the end of his sprint to school, to write a letter.</p>
<p class="LT"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Dear H. G. Higgins,</span></p>
<p class="LTF"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">You don’t know me, but I’m reading a library book that you maybe read, a really long time ago. It’s called</span> <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_I_11">How to Write a Mystery Novel</span><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">. At least I think you read it—your name is in it . Did you ever go to the Martinville Library? It burned</span> <span aria-label=" Page 51. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_51" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">down before I was born, so I’ve never been there, even though I’ve lived in Martinville for my whole life. Did you use to live around here? I think if you lived here, I would know about it, because you’re a famous writer and this town is pretty small. I haven’t read any of your books yet, but I know that</span> <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_I_11">Assignment Accepted</span> <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">was made into a movie. Did you get to be in it?</span></p>
<p class="LTX"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Next year I’m starting sixth grade at Grantville Middle. This probably sounds weird, but did you ever take a Polaroid picture and put it in that book? Do you wear glasses? Your name is actually the only one on the circulation card .</span></p>
<p class="LTX"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Thank you, even though you probably don’t remember.</span></p>
<p class="LT_SIG"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Evan McClelland</span></p>
<p class="LTF"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">P. S. If you lived here, you don’t remember someone named Edward McClelland, do you?</span></p>
<p class="LTF1"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">P. P. S. The book says that an antagonist has to be an obstacle to the protagonist getting what he wants. Do you agree with that?</span></p>
<p class="STX">Mr. O’Neal kept an “author correspondence center” at the back of their classroom, stocked with envelopes, stamps, and a cardboard mailbox. (Mr. O’Neal took the letters to the real post office himself.) Evan addressed his envelope <span aria-label=" Page 52. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_52" role="doc-pagebreak"/>to <i>H. G. Higgins, mystery writer</i>, and copied the address he found for H. G. Higgins on the internet. It wasn’t a real address—it was “care of” a publisher in New York. Maybe H. G. Higgins didn’t want people knowing where he lived?</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe was probably right. It probably wasn’t the <i>real</i> H. G. Higgins who borrowed <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i> from the Martinville Library almost twenty years ago. But, like Rafe also said, Evan was thinking like a detective. And a real detective tracked down every possible lead.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Even the great Mr. O’Neal couldn’t keep his fifth graders calm on the third to last day of elementary school. There was a nonstop buzzing excitement about graduation on Friday and the big picnic afterward for the fifth graders and their families—it was finally <i>their turn</i>. <i>This was it</i>. There was always one more thing to say, to whoever happened to be standing next to you.</p>
<p class="TX">After recess, Mr. O’Neal lined them up and held up both hands for quiet, looking serious.</p>
<p class="TX">“When we get to the classroom,” he said gently, “every one of us is going to sit down with a book, take two deep breaths, and then read for half an hour. You all need a break from talking. And I need a break from trying to get you to stop talking.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 53. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_53" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Everyone laughed. For a second, they thought they had been in trouble. And it was actually a relief, to open their books and let their mouths rest for a little while. Though the buzzing feeling didn’t really go away.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan had been reading <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i> for ten minutes when he realized that Mr. O’Neal was looking over his shoulder.</p>
<p class="TX">“Interesting. Are you planning to write a book this summer?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan tried to decide if Mr. O’Neal was teasing him, and decided (correctly) that he was not. “No. But I am—” Evan realized he was about to say <i>but I am kind of trying to solve a mystery</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. O’Neal looked at him.</p>
<p class="TX">“But I am thinking about some stuff,” Evan said instead.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. O’Neal nodded. “All of life is a mystery, in a way. And that makes every single one of us a detective.” He continued down the row of desks.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan just sat there for a few seconds, looking at his desk. He <i>was</i> trying to solve a mystery, he realized: the mystery of the little free library, and why it was full of books from a library that burned down twenty years ago. The mystery of H. G. Higgins and the Polaroid picture.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 54. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_54" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The mystery of why his father had banged out of the kitchen like that.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">He took out his journal and flipped to the first empty page.</p>
<p class="TX"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">My Mystery</span>, he wrote at the top. He would do an outline, like his book said to. If an outline worked for <i>writing</i> a mystery, maybe it would help him solve one. He copied the sample in the book and started filling out his answers.</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="DIAF"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">SETTING:</span> That was obvious. He wrote <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Martinville.</span></p>
<p class="DIA"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">TONE:</span> Evan thought about it, but only for a few seconds, and wrote <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Not scary.</span> He did not enjoy scary stories.</p>
<p class="DIAL"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">PROTAGONIST:</span> The “protagonist,” the book said, was the person the story followed—and usually that was also the person who solved the mystery. It could be an actual detective, or it could be an “amateur sleuth,” who could be pretty much anyone—town baker, newspaper writer, school principal. Fifth grader?</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Me</span>, he wrote. <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Amateur sleuth and fifth grader</span>. And he drew the back of his thumb down his forehead, adjusting his imaginary cap.</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="DIAF"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">ANTAGONIST:</span> “Antagonist” usually meant “bad guy.” But sometimes it didn’t. Something else could get in the protagonist’s way, like a storm, or a demented bear. Evan was the protagonist, so he asked himself, <i>What’s in</i> <span aria-label=" Page 55. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_55" role="doc-pagebreak"/>my <i>way</i>? And then he wrote his answer slowly, while a tiny chill traveled up his back: <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Secrets</span>.</p>
<p class="DIA"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">SUPPORTING CHARACTERS:</span> He hadn’t read that chapter yet, so he just wrote <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Rafe.</span></p>
<p class="DIA"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">CRIME:</span> This wasn’t <i>that</i> kind of mystery, which was a good thing. He left it blank.</p>
<p class="DIA"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">MOTIVE:</span> Evan thought he knew what “motive” meant—wasn’t it the hidden reason the bad guy did whatever he did? But that was a guess. He left it blank.</p>
<p class="DIA"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">VICTIM:</span> Blank.</p>
<p class="DIA"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">SUSPECTS:</span> Blank.</p>
<p class="DIAL"><span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">CLUES:</span> Finally! Now he wrote quickly. <span class="GFY_Palmer_Regular_11">Why did Dad get upset? Where did that funny library come from and why is it full of old Martinville Library books? Why were all the books returned the same day? Did H. G. Higgins really live in Martinville? Who took that Polaroid picture? Why was it in the book?</span></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX">Evan sat back in his chair, disappointed. Were these really clues? Or were they just a bunch of questions?</p>
<p class="TX">That was as far as he got. Twenty-nine of Mr. O’Neal’s “thirty minutes of peace and quiet” had passed in near silence, but now the voices were rising around him. Evan was relieved to join them.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>