<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Four. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch24" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch24">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 121. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_121" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch24"><b>Chapter Twenty-Four</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch24"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">It took only a few hours to construct my little library. While I worked, Ms. Scoggin acted as my lookout, and the dear cat was her assistant. As the sky grew light, Ms. Scoggin began to sigh and ask about breakfast, but I was very firm that breakfast would be afterward. And she was a good lookout. Twice, she whistled, and I had just enough time to hide behind some bushes, leaving my work in a pile while someone passed along Main Street. Luckily, it was still too dim for most people to notice a pile of boards and books on the town green, and no one came to investigate.</p>
<p class="TX">My project turned out well. Even Ms. Scoggin approved. “I do miss <i>our</i> library, though.” She had a sad look.</p>
<p class="TX">“I miss it, too,” I told her. “Very much.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 122. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_122" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“A library is the place for you,” she said as we walked toward home. “A nice <i>big</i> one.”</p>
<p class="TX">“And leave Martinville? Who would take care of you and Mr. Brock?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Mr. Brock and I will do just fine,” she said. “Just as soon as you take your place in the world. Perhaps this is a start.” She smiled at me. I waited for a Reminder or a Criticism. But she continued to smile.</p>
<p class="TX">We had climbed up to our porch, where I dropped my saw, my hammer, and my extra nails.</p>
<p class="TX">“Thank you for your help,” I told her. And I extended a fist to the dear cat, who rubbed his cheek against my knuckles. I held the front door open for him. (Ms. Scoggin had no use for doors, of course.)</p>
<p class="TX">But the dear cat would not come inside. Nor did he settle himself on the swing. The dear cat, who had never before ventured out alone beyond the top step of our porch, was now trotting down the stairs and marching off, tail up, back toward the town green.</p>
<p class="TX">“Cat!” Ms. Scoggin cried out. “Cat!”</p>
<p class="TX">But he did not even turn around.</p>
<p class="TX">“He’ll be back soon,” I said, but to be honest, I was shaken.</p>
<p class="TX">“I’ll start getting breakfast ready,” I said.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 123. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_123" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Isn’t it Monday?” Ms. Scoggin began to count on her fingers. Mondays were the day I visited Grantville, to renew Mr. Brock’s book, buy our few necessities, and practice my invisibility. But I felt worn out. I watched her count and hoped she would not do it correctly.</p>
<p class="TX">“It is Monday!” she announced triumphantly. “You will do your errands. And <i>I</i> will fetch breakfast for Mr. Brock and myself.”</p>
<p class="TX">“You? In the kitchen?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Go upstairs to change,” she said, waving me toward the stairs. “And then you may take the last apple muffin to eat along the way.”</p>
<p class="TX">She had a very generous look on her face, and so I thanked her, although of course I had made the muffins myself.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>