<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch30" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch30">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 148. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_148" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch30"><b>Chapter Thirty</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch30"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Evan wasn’t even halfway home when he heard a squeaky bike bell from the road behind him. Evan stopped and turned. Demetri Pappas was pedaling toward him with a big smile on his face, calling out, “Evan!”</p>
<p class="TX">When Demetri braked in front of him, Evan saw that his bike basket was full of individually wrapped brownies.</p>
<p class="TX">“Want one?” Demetri said. “I got over to the town green as soon as the bus dropped me off. So many desserts are looking for a good home on graduation day.” He grinned.</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m full,” Evan said, one hand on his stomach. <i>You’re</i> tall <i>now</i>, he was thinking. In his running shorts, Demetri’s <span aria-label=" Page 149. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_149" role="doc-pagebreak"/>legs looked a mile long. And he used to be kind of short. Like Rafe.</p>
<p class="TX">“I saw you guys at school this week,” Demetri said. “You excited for Grantville Middle?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah. I guess so.”</p>
<p class="TX">Demetri laughed. “I wasn’t thrilled about it, either. But you’ll like it. You get to pick an instrument. And I’ll be on your bus! For a year, anyway.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan tried not to be too obvious about it, but he was still looking at Demetri’s legs. He had some bike grease on one shin, but his legs weren’t <i>extra</i> hairy. For some reason, this felt reassuring.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s my other leg,” Demetri said, raising his far knee.</p>
<p class="TX">“What?”</p>
<p class="TX">“The scar.”</p>
<p class="TX">That was when Evan remembered Demetri’s epic scar, which ran down one leg, from hip to knee.</p>
<p class="TX">And then he remembered how Demetri got it.</p>
<p class="TX">“I just realized that I forgot something,” Evan said. “I have to go back to town.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Okay—have a good summer. I’m leaving for camp next week.” Demetri pedaled away, calling back, “I’ll save you a seat on the bus in September, okay?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 150. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_150" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Okay! Thanks!” Evan was already running in the other direction, despite the stomachache. To Rafe’s house. Because what he had to do next was dangerous, and he would feel better if Rafe were with him.</p>
<p class="TX">Luckily, Rafe’s dentist appointments were usually very quick. His parents made him brush after every meal.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>