<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Seven. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch27" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch27">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 138. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_138" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch27"><b>Chapter Twenty-Seven</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch27"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Another graduation day.</p>
<p class="TX">The poems were especially good this time. (I listen every year, from the corner of our porch.) And the sight of the children running like wolves to the dessert table is always cheering. But when I came back inside and closed the door behind me, all my worries returned.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin is often off the floor now, for one thing. Hovering.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. Brock reads the first chapter of his book over and over.</p>
<p class="TX">And the dear cat does not come home.</p>
<p class="TX">And me. I feel different, too. That old library cart carried not just old books, but old memories. Strong ones.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 139. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_139" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Mr. Brock’s singsong voice came down the stairs. “Ms. Scoggin? Where, oh where, is my 4:00 <small>P.M.</small> cheese, Ms. Scoggin?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m sure I have no idea!” Ms. Scoggin called back to him from her chair in the parlor. “But I hope it arrives soon, along with my tea!” She hovered above her chair, grabbed on to the seat cushion to steady herself, and fixed me with a look.</p>
<p class="TX">I was very happy to make the tea and fetch the cheese because I wanted—well, what did I want?</p>
<p class="TX">For Ms. Scoggin’s smile to come back, mostly.</p>
<p class="TX">So I brewed a pot of tea and brought it to Ms. Scoggin, and then took the cheese plate from the kitchen cupboard and set off for Mr. Brock’s room with it.</p>
<p class="TX">I was rushing past the front door on the way to the stairs when I heard a knock.</p>
<p class="TX">Someone was at the door. On a Friday.</p>
<p class="TX">Someone, I realized, who could definitely <i>see</i> me.</p>
<p class="TX">Was it just bad luck that I had been right in front of the big porch window?</p>
<p class="TX">It was a boy, holding a notebook.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">As you know, my invisibility has always been a struggle. I could tell that it was doing absolutely nothing for me now. <span aria-label=" Page 140. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_140" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Because the boy was waving to me through the thin curtain, just a little.</p>
<p class="TX">I had two choices. I could pretend I had not seen him, and just turn my back and walk away, or I could open the door. Neither one appealed to me at all. It’s terrible when you don’t like your choices. I looked at the cheese, and then back to the boy, who gave me a little smile. I have never in my life been able to turn my back on a smile.</p>
<p class="TX">Which meant that I would have to open the door. So I did.</p>
<p class="TX">“Hello,” he said uncertainly. “I don’t know how this works. Was I supposed to make an appointment?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes,” I said. “I believe all History House appointments are to be made <i>in advance</i>. And tours are on <i>Tuesdays and Sundays</i>.” I thought of all my best hiding places, and how far I was from them.</p>
<p class="TX">His smile dropped, and he said, “Oh. Sorry.” And suddenly I was looking at the schoolbag on his back. He clearly intended to walk away, and if I’d had a moment to reflect, I would have let him do just that. Instead, some long-buried instinct kicked in, and I heard myself speaking!</p>
<p class="TX">“Wait. How can I help you?”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>