<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-Two. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch32" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch32">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 160. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_160" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch32"><b>Chapter Thirty-Two</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch32"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">The problem with my beautiful moment with our visitor was that I wanted the one after it to be beautiful, too. I wanted another person, a person with questions, to knock on the door. But the child with the notebook was only in the house for twenty minutes, and there was no one else.</p>
<p class="TX">After he left, I sat down at the big wooden table with the box marked “Martinville Library Fire.” He had carefully repacked the things inside, which I appreciated as I laid them out in front of me. There were a few news articles from the Grantville paper, and even a short paragraph from the <i>City News</i>. (Martinville is too small to have its own newspaper.)</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 161. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_161" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Plus the obituaries of Ms. Scoggin and Mr. Brock. (They had both led notable lives, unlike myself.) I remembered the funerals, where the three of us ghosts had stood together in the sunlight, watching. I was particularly watching our dear boy, of course. Though we’d watched him grow quite tall by the time he was a teenager, his cheeks had never fully lost their roundness. He still blushed whenever he spoke, which is a sure sign of depth and sincerity. And, at Ms. Scoggin’s funeral, he spoke.</p>
<p class="TX">He talked about what the library meant to him. I know it sounds unlikely, but it <i>seemed</i> as if he was looking at us the whole time he spoke. I felt just as invisible as Ms. Scoggin and Mr. Brock were that day, but I may have been fooling myself.</p>
<p class="TX">My mind struggled with the same old knot:</p>
<ol>
<li class="NLF" value="1">It was impossible that our dear boy had started the fire. He would never do such a thing. Even if he was upset. Never.</li>
<li class="NLL">It was impossible that anyone else had started the fire: The warden said that a match had been struck in the library basement and held to a book. No one but the dear boy had been there.</li>
</ol>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 162. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_162" role="doc-pagebreak"/>I remembered the dear boy that fateful evening, his head down and his ears bright red, hurrying down the basement stairs after Ms. Scoggin let him have it: Criticisms galore. He hadn’t changed the paper towel rolls in the bathrooms. He needed to remember to stand up straight and look people in the eyes. And, worst of all, he’d mis-shelved some biographies in the fiction section! A misfiled book was as good as lost, didn’t he know that by now?</p>
<p class="TX">By the time he got away from her, he was practically running.</p>
<p class="TX">I had not let myself think of that day for a long time.</p>
<p class="TX">I gathered up the clippings, put them back in their box, and walked it over to the large cabinet marked “Town History.”</p>
<p class="TX">Hardly anyone ever comes to look at such things.</p>
<p class="TX">Lost in my cloud, I crossed the parlor to gather Ms. Scoggin’s teacup.</p>
<p class="TX">She was in her chair, her cup within reach, but still full to the brim and, by now, surely cold. Mr. Brock had come downstairs and was in his spot on the sofa.</p>
<p class="TX">Or he was hovering above it, anyway. I stared: They were both hovering now? Why?</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. Brock gripped his book with both hands. I realized <span aria-label=" Page 163. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_163" role="doc-pagebreak"/>I had never given him his cheese. It wasn’t like him not to notice the absence of cheese.</p>
<p class="TX">“You didn’t drink your tea,” I said to Ms. Scoggin. “Should I brew another pot?”</p>
<p class="TX">She shook her head. “I shouldn’t have yelled at him,” she said. “He was a good boy.” She covered her librarian pin with one hand.</p>
<p class="TX">I didn’t say anything. I knew she wasn’t talking about the child who had just left our house. We both knew exactly who she was talking about. The dear boy. But what could either of us do about it now?</p>
<p class="TX">I will always remember the day Ms. Scoggin presented him with his official staff pin. His eyes blazed with a pride I remembered from my own first day at the library. From that moment, he never came to work without it. We all wore our pins.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin’s said “Librarian.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mine said “AL” (for “assistant librarian,” which Ms. Scoggin said was too many letters to fit.)</p>
<p class="TX">And Edward’s said “Intern.”</p>
<p class="TX">Edward. That was his name. Our dear boy.</p>
<p class="TX">He liked to call me Al.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>