<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Three. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch23" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch23">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 111. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_111" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch23"><b>Chapter Twenty-Three</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch23"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Evan thought it would feel a lot more satisfying to write “keys” on his list of clues. But it took only three seconds to write the word “keys,” and only another four to realize that 1) he had no idea what to do with these keys, and 2) finding keys wasn’t actually all that unusual. Now that he thought about it, he had found keys before.</p>
<p class="TX">Once, he’d found a key in the town hall parking lot when he’d gone with his mom to pick up their summer pass to the town pond. And once he’d found a set of three keys, on a braided pink-and-green cord, under a chair in the cafeteria at school. What had he done with those keys? Just turned them in, to the nearest grown-up. <i>Those</i> <span aria-label=" Page 112. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_112" role="doc-pagebreak"/>keys hadn’t felt like mysteries. Maybe <i>these</i> keys weren’t a mystery.</p>
<p class="TX">“What now?” Evan said, when he had escaped the thorns and shown the keys to Rafe. “We go around trying to fit these into doors?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I don’t think that’s legal,” Rafe said. “And this one looks like it’s for a padlock.” He pinched the smaller silver key between two fingers.</p>
<p class="TX">“So we look for padlocks?”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe thought. Then he said, “I’m not sure that’s legal, either.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Things felt so different during the day than they did at night. With the sun shining, it seemed to Evan that the library fire was only a <i>possible</i> crime. Yes, there had been victims, but he couldn’t think of a motive. And the book said that, in a mystery, the villain’s motive was the second most important thing.</p>
<p class="TX">The <i>first</i> most important thing, the book said, was the ending: <i>Remember! If you are to satisfy your readers, justice must be done in the end</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan liked the sound of that. He liked the sound of justice.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 113. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_113" role="doc-pagebreak"/>But maybe there was no villain, and no real mystery, here. Maybe not all of life was a mystery.</p>
<p class="TX">Even Mr. O’Neal could be wrong about things.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Mr. O’Neal’s class had library on Thursdays. As they approached the door, Evan read, as he always did, the quote painted above it in rainbow letters:</p>
<p class="TX"><i>We read to know we are not alone. —</i>C. S. Lewis</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Shore, the school librarian, told them that, in honor of the second-to-last day of school, it would be an “open class”: They could talk without yelling, read on the floor, or get on the computers.</p>
<p class="TX">Everyone lunged for the computers—it was like a panicked game of musical chairs. Rafe somehow grabbed two right next to each other. Evan gave himself a celebratory spin in his chair before putting his fingers to the keyboard. He typed <i>H. G. Higgins</i>. And hit “search.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>H. G. Higgins is a pseudonymous author of American mystery novels. His first book,</i> Assignment Accepted<i>, was published in 2009, and he has published a bestseller every year since.</i></p>
<p class="TX">“His first book wasn’t published until 2009,” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 114. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_114" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Rafe looked up from a baseball-stats site on his computer. “Who?”</p>
<p class="TX">“H. G. Higgins. The book was returned on the night of the fire. In 1999. So there <i>was</i> no ‘H. G. Higgins, the famous writer’ when he borrowed that book. He was just H. G. Higgins, a random person!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Wow, yeah. It couldn’t have been a joke—no one knew his name yet!” Rafe grinned. “I can’t believe it. No one famous ever comes here.”</p>
<p class="TX">“He <i>wasn’t</i> famous, yet. That’s the point.” Evan was copying the information on the screen into his journal. “It doesn’t say how old he is. If we knew that, we could figure out how old he was when he was here. Twenty years ago. What if he was a kid?”</p>
<p class="TX">“A kid called H. G.?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I guess? What if he lived here?”</p>
<p class="TX">“What does ‘pseudonymous’ mean?” Rafe said, frowning at Evan’s computer.</p>
<p class="TX">“What?”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe pointed. “The kind of writer it says he is.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh—I don’t know.”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe put his fingers on his keyboard. “Spell it for me.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan spelled it from the screen.</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe clicked. “Okay … whoa.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 115. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_115" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“What?”</p>
<p class="TX">“It means that H. G. Higgins is a fake name. A pen name, it’s called. For when the author wants his identity to be a secret.”</p>
<p class="TX">“A <i>secret</i>? That makes no sense. If you were famous, wouldn’t you want people to know?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah. And why would someone need a fake name ten years <i>before</i> he became famous?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I don’t know,” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX">Although he could think of one reason. Maybe, before <i>writing</i> mysteries, H. G. Higgins had decided to create one in real life. By starting a fire.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan had the feeling he wasn’t going to get an answer to his letter.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Evan found Ms. Shore, the librarian, reading a magazine at her desk.</p>
<p class="TX">“Where can I look up the real name of someone who is pseudonymous?” he asked, pronouncing it <i>soo-doh-NY-mus</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s pronounced soo-DON-uh-mus. And it depends. Sometimes it’s common knowledge, sometimes it’s not,” she said. “Who are you wondering about?”</p>
<p class="TX">“H. G. Higgins. I need to know his real name.”</p>
<p class="TX">“H. G. Higgins? You want to know <i>his</i> real name?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 116. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_116" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Yes. He writes mysteries.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I am aware of that. But I’m wondering how you can be so sure that H. G. Higgins is a <i>man</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan blushed. “Oh. I just thought—”</p>
<p class="TX">“Exactly. You <i>assumed</i>. But you don’t know. And neither do I. Actually, I don’t know anything about H. G. Higgins, except that H. G. Higgins is probably very rich.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I think maybe he—or she—lived around here, a long time ago.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Really? That’s interesting.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Is there someplace I could look? To find out if he really lived here?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Without his real name? Can’t think where. We certainly don’t have anything here. And I doubt there’s anything on file at the History House. They only have a few things—just town history, mostly. I don’t think this qualifies.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Town history</i>. “Do you think they might have newspaper articles about the library fire?”</p>
<p class="TX">She nodded. “Oh, yes. There’s got to be <i>something</i> about the fire over there.” Then she leaned back in her chair and squinted at him. “Your father is Edward McClelland, right?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes. Why?”</p>
<p class="TX">“He used to work there, that’s why.”</p>
<p class="TX">“At the History House?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 117. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_117" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“No. At the library. When we were in high school.”</p>
<p class="TX">“You know my dad?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Well, I did. When we were kids, we were in a book club together.” She paused. “Sort of.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Evan went back to Rafe, who was now doing tomato research at his computer.</p>
<p class="TX">“No information,” he told Rafe.</p>
<p class="TX">“We’ll figure it out,” Rafe said, scribbling notes about slug deterrents. “I’ll be a lot more useful tomorrow.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Tomorrow?” Evan repeated.</p>
<p class="TX">“Of course. Tomorrow we graduate.”</p>
<p class="TX">“And?”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe grinned at him.</p>
<p class="TX">“Do you mean … the <i>expiration date</i>?”</p>
<p class="TX">“We’re graduating, aren’t we? That means we won’t be in elementary school anymore. We’ll be <i>middle schoolers</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan still didn’t share the excitement about being <i>middle schoolers</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">But he was happy for Rafe.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Little known truth: Rafe was brave.</p>
<p class="TX">In fact, it was Rafe’s bravery that had made his parents so worried in the first place.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 118. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_118" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The pre-K kids at Martinville Elementary played in the pre-K yard, which had a fence around it so that no one could wander off. It was just a fenced-off grassy area with a lot of rubber balls, hula hoops, and a plastic playhouse in it. Everyone loved the playhouse. They climbed around inside, and on top, forcing themselves through the windows, inventing games, and assigning one another characters. For some reason, Evan was usually a “dad” or a “storekeeper.” He’d <i>wanted</i> to be one of the many wild “little brothers.” Or Spider-Man.</p>
<p class="TX">Anyway. One day, a great shrieking came from inside the playhouse during pre-K recess. Evan was standing at one of the windows (he was being an ice-cream man). The shrieking came from Bruce Melon, who had just sneaked in (he was being an ice-cream store robber) when he noticed a black snake coiled up in one corner. Evan and Bruce hurled themselves through the nearest windows and onto the grass outside while Rafe dived <i>in</i> through the door to investigate.</p>
<p class="TX">Seconds later, he emerged, holding the snake in both hands. He carried it all the way to the fence and lowered it down to the grass on the other side while everyone stared (even the teacher). “Garter snake!” he shouted. “A baby. I think he was trying to hide.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 119. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_119" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Rafe’s parents made their first special rule for him that very afternoon. The rule was “No picking up snakes.” Soon to be followed by many others.</p>
<p class="TX">“They’re worriers,” Rafe had told Evan. “They can’t help imagining every bad thing that could happen. The rules make them feel a lot better.”</p>
<p class="TX">So Rafe followed the rules. But, in third grade, he had asked his parents about an expiration date.</p>
<p class="TX">“Expiration?” His mother’s forehead wrinkled instantly. “Is the milk sour? Don’t drink it!”</p>
<p class="TX">One of the rules was never to eat or drink anything without first checking the expiration date on the package. In fact, that was where Rafe had gotten the idea.</p>
<p class="TX">“An expiration date for the <i>rules</i>,” Rafe said. “Someday, I do want to cross the street by myself. And climb trees. And walk on the grass without shoes and socks on.”</p>
<p class="TX">His parents looked uncertain. “Well, I guess the rules can’t last <i>forever</i>.” His father’s forehead was <i>also</i> scrunched up now, as if he were imagining that Rafe might run straight out the door and start picking up snakes.</p>
<p class="TX">“But, if there is an expiration date, it should be <i>very</i> far away,” his mom added.</p>
<p class="TX">“How about … middle school?” Rafe said.</p>
<p class="TX">Both of his parents relaxed visibly. “Middle school!” his <span aria-label=" Page 120. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_120" role="doc-pagebreak"/>father said. “Yes. Very good. The rules will expire when you are a <i>middle schooler</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">And his parents smiled at each other, because at that time, <i>middle school</i> seemed so far away.</p>
<p class="TX">Most of the kids at Martinville Elementary had forgotten all about the snake. Evan had not forgotten. He knew that when Rafe did not cross streets and did not climb trees, he was only taking care of other people (his parents, this time). And Rafe didn’t need anyone else to know it.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">“Hey,” Evan said, “so does this mean that <i>tomorrow</i>, after graduation, we can start looking for doors to open with the keys? Even if it’s slightly illegal?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Tomorrow,” Rafe confirmed, clicking over to a website called <i>Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Fertilizer but Were Afraid to Ask</i>. “Right after I get back from the dentist.”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>