<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Fifteen. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch15" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch15">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 68. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_68" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch15"><b>Chapter Fifteen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch15"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Evan expected Wednesday’s trip to Grantville Middle School to be more loud, happy talking and no one able to sit still. And it <i>had</i> been that way, on the bus ride <i>to</i> Grantville. Mr. O’Neal had wanted to play math games, but the other fifth-grade teacher blasted her playlist on a portable speaker instead. Everybody sang. By the time they pulled up in front of the massive “Go Tigers!” banner hanging over the school’s front doors, Mr. O’Neal was singing, too.</p>
<p class="TX">But going home to Martinville, everything was different. Kids mostly whispered as they got back on the bus. No one laughed.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s weird, isn’t it?” Rafe said, flipping through his deck of baseball cards as they pulled out onto the road. “We’re <span aria-label=" Page 69. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_69" role="doc-pagebreak"/>never going back to our school after Friday. After Friday, <i>that’s</i> our school.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan had always imagined Grantville Middle as a lot like Martinville Elementary, just farther away, with different teachers and more kids. But it wasn’t like elementary school. The kids there were huge, for one thing.</p>
<p class="TX">They’d had an assembly, where some graduating eighth graders sat on the edge of the stage and answered questions from the incoming fifth graders. Those eighth graders were super nice. But the buzzer that rang between classes was so <i>loud</i>, and the halls were so crowded with huge kids and their huge backpacks. The cafeteria was chaos. Everything looked kind of grimy.</p>
<p class="TX">“I remember the day I was sitting where you are now,” one eighth grader had told them, his legs dangling off the edge of the stage. He wasn’t from Martinville, so Evan didn’t know him. “And I thought it seemed really big and weird here. But I promise—Grantville will feel like your place pretty fast. Today I feel sad about leaving middle school, just like you probably feel sad about leaving your schools.”</p>
<p class="TX">He was one of those kids who could say what he meant, without being embarrassed. Like Rafe. Evan sat in the second row and wished he were more like that. He stared at <span aria-label=" Page 70. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_70" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the kid’s legs. They were so long. They were hairy! Would his legs be that hairy in three years? He didn’t want to think about it. Next year, the middle school bus would pick up Evan right in front of his house. There would be no more walks up the road, for thinking and eating his apples.</p>
<p class="TX">Everyone around him suddenly groaned loudly. Evan had missed something.</p>
<p class="TX">He turned to Rafe. “What happened”?</p>
<p class="TX">“No recess in middle school,” Rafe said. “No <i>recess</i>.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">On the bus ride home, even Mr. O’Neal thought it was a little too quiet.</p>
<p class="TX">“How about a game of Geography?” he called out. So they started playing, row by row. “Arizona,” “Alabama,” “Arkansas,” “Seattle…”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan stared out the window as the bus climbed a hill. Suddenly, Martinville appeared below them, with the town green and the three roads that led to it all neatly laid out. Their school, the town hall, the History House, the shops, and big houses near town. Evan felt that almost-pain zip up his middle again, as if he were being forced to leave home. His eye traveled from one building to the next while his heart hurt.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 71. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_71" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“See? Right there. That’s where it was.” Rafe pointed through the window with a baseball card.</p>
<p class="TX">“Where what was?”</p>
<p class="TX">“The Martinville Library!” Evan followed the line of the baseball card. Between the town hall and the History House, and set back behind them a little, there was a big patch of—nothing. Bushes and stuff. Overgrown weeds.</p>
<p class="TX">He leaned forward and tried to see some sign of the old library, but as the bus went down the other side of the hill, trees got in the way and the town blinked out of view.</p>
<p class="TX">“You always knew it was right there?” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe nodded. “Yep. But I never really thought about it, you know? My parents always told me not to go in there.”</p>
<p class="TX">“They’re always telling you not to go <i>anywhere</i>,” Evan said, almost rudely.</p>
<p class="TX">“I know.” Rafe sighed.</p>
<p class="TX">A voice floated back to them from two seats ahead—Mr. O’Neal’s. “I still miss it dearly. It was such a fine old library,” he said, “with a turret and a steeple. Big blue doors. A creaky old balcony. The most wonderful librarians.”</p>
<p class="TX">“How did the fire start, Mr. O’Neal?” Rafe called back.</p>
<p class="TX">Around them, kids were still playing Geography. “Mississippi,” “Illinois,” “San Francisco…”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 72. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_72" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Mr. O’Neal turned around, looking surprised. “No one knows how it started.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan and Rafe exchanged looks. “Really?” Rafe said. “That’s weird, isn’t it? Maybe it was lightning.”</p>
<p class="TX">“No. Not lightning.” Mr. O’Neal hesitated, and seemed to be looking at Evan.</p>
<p class="TX">Looking at him pretty strangely, actually.</p>
<p class="TX">“The fire started in the basement,” he said finally. “But no one knows how it happened. Not for sure. I mean, it was nobody’s <i>fault</i>. I’m sure of that.”</p>
<p class="TX">“How do you know for sure?” Rafe said.</p>
<p class="TX">“It was a wonderful place,” Mr. O’Neal said, as if that answered the question. And then they were looking at the back of his head.</p>
<p class="TX">“You can’t say ‘Philly,’” someone behind them was arguing. “You have to use the real name. ‘Philadelphia.’ You’re just trying to give me a <i>Y!</i> Nothing starts with <i>Y</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">And then kids started yelling out the names of places that start with <i>Y</i>, and the last-week-of-school buzz was back.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">When the bus pulled into the school parking lot, Rafe’s parents were both standing there waiting for it. He waved at them from the window, and his mom threw her arms <span aria-label=" Page 73. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_73" role="doc-pagebreak"/>around him as soon as his feet hit the ground. As if Rafe had been away for a week instead of an afternoon.</p>
<p class="TX">“Well?” Rafe’s dad said.</p>
<p class="TX">And Rafe said, “It was good,” and waved bye to Evan.</p>
<p class="TX">There was a little crowd of parents, actually. But Evan didn’t even look for his. They had trusted him to get home on his own since the end of third grade.</p>
<p class="TX">But then he heard Rafe call out. “Hey, Ev—there’s your dad!” And he pointed across the street.</p>
<p class="TX">His dad was standing at the edge of the town green, apart from all the other parents. He was under a tree, slightly bent, as if the space was a little too small for him.</p>
<p class="TX">“Dad!” Evan called. He watched his father find him in the crowd of kids and break into a smile. Evan jogged over. “I didn’t know you’d be here. Hi.”</p>
<p class="TX">His dad put one big hand on Evan’s head. “I was in town and saw everyone waiting, so I figured your bus was coming. How was GMS? Are the walls still mint green? Does the gym still smell like floor polish?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes and yes. And the bells are so loud. The cafeteria is gross. I’m glad we didn’t have to eat lunch there.”</p>
<p class="TX">His dad laughed. “Stop. You’re making me miss the special flavor of GMS frozen fish sticks! Believe it or not, they grow on you.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 74. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_74" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Edward?” Mr. O’Neal was crossing to where they stood. “Do you have a minute?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Of course. Everything okay?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, for sure,” Mr. O’Neal said. “Everything is great. Just one tiny thing.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Two seconds, Evan!” his dad said, and followed Mr. O’Neal to the water fountain, where Mr. O’Neal took a long drink, wiped his mouth, and spoke in a low voice. His dad just listened. And then Mr. O’Neal handed him something, which his dad slid into his back pocket.</p>
<p class="TX">“What was that?” Evan asked when he was back.</p>
<p class="TX">“Nothing to worry about, kiddo.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Was it another mouse complaint?”</p>
<p class="TX">For some reason, his dad laughed at that. Evan didn’t think the mouse complaints were funny. He didn’t know his dad thought they were funny, either.</p>
<p class="TX">“Nope. Just some … um, paperwork.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Paperwork?</i></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>