<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-Eight. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch38" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch38">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 193. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_193" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch38"><b>Chapter Thirty-Eight</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch38"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">So here’s the truth of it, the truth Ms. Scoggin finally made me face: I’m not a ghost. I was never a ghost.</p>
<p class="TX">In fact, I am like anyone who is alive.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">I did not die on the night of the fire, though I came close. I remember collapsing in the library basement, my lungs full of smoke.</p>
<p class="TX">I had shoved the cart (and the dear cat) through the basement door and then, by crawling, found Edward, finally, on the floor. He looked unconscious, and I grabbed at his arms, preparing to drag him out. Instead, without meaning to, I joined him on the ground.</p>
<p class="TX">And then, somehow, Edward got me outside.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 194. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_194" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Saved me.</p>
<p class="TX">I woke up on sharp gravel in the cold night air. Edward was next to me, coughing and coughing. There were sirens, and a firefighter was running toward us.</p>
<p class="TX">“Is anyone inside?” he shouted.</p>
<p class="TX">And I told him, <i>Ms. Scoggin</i>. Ms. Scoggin!</p>
<p class="TX">They found her on the balcony, where she had been overcome by smoke.</p>
<p class="TX">After that—how can I explain? I suppose my heart broke.</p>
<p class="TX">I felt myself draining away. I <i>wanted</i> to become a ghost.</p>
<p class="TX">And then, somehow, a miracle, she was next to me. My dear Ms. Scoggin. A ghost, but also, herself.</p>
<p class="TX">We moved into the History House together, along with Mr. Brock.</p>
<p class="TX">I made the applesauce, and baked the potatoes, and managed the cheese cupboard. I am ashamed to say that it never even occurred to me that the dear ghosts wished to be someplace else.</p>
<p class="TX">Instead, Ms. Scoggin stayed and stayed. For <i>me</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">She waited for me to take my place in the world again. Waited for me to let go of her.</p>
<p class="TX">This, I believe, is similar to what mothers do.</p>
<p class="TX">I never thanked her.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 195. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_195" role="doc-pagebreak"/>I never thanked Mr. Brock, who waited with her. (And twenty years is a very long time to wait for a trip to the movies.)</p>
<p class="TX">I never even thanked Edward for saving my life.</p>
<p class="TX">Instead, I hid. I did my Monday errands with my head down. And if anyone spoke to me, I rushed in the other direction. But most people learned not to talk to me. No one tried anymore, after a while. Not even the person who made me those tuna fish and pickle sandwiches every Wednesday.</p>
<p class="TX">After the dear ghosts left, I lay on the parlor floor with a big bump on my head, contemplating all of this.</p>
<p class="TX">And then, for the second time in one day, I heard a knock at the door.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>