<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch20" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch20">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 94. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_94" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch20"><b>Chapter Twenty</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch20"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Not long after we created our secret book club, the dear boy and I conspired to rescue a mouse.</p>
<p class="TX">You have already heard, of course, about how mice sometimes like to come indoors, where there is warmth, food, and shelter from predators. Ms. Scoggin couldn’t stand them. She said that the only place for animals of any kind in a library was “in stories.” But she made an exception for the energetic gray-and-white library cat who helped keep out her number one enemies, the mice. (Years later, this cat became our own dear cat’s mother. Ms. Scoggin was not pleased. In time, of course, she changed her tune.)</p>
<p class="TX">The dear boy, as I’ve said, was a Great Reader. He read a good number of books, and more importantly, he took <span aria-label=" Page 95. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_95" role="doc-pagebreak"/>some of them straight into his heart. One of those books was a story about a mouse. It changed him. After he read that book, he could no longer see mice as the enemy. He saw them as fellow creatures, just as many people see a puppy or a horse. And this was why the dear boy and I undertook our rescue. If I recall correctly, he called it Mission Mouse.</p>
<p class="TX">One afternoon, he came to me in an obvious panic. Refusing to explain, he led me into the rows of shelves under the balcony before stopping abruptly and pointing.</p>
<p class="TX">There was a space there, where the wood floor dipped a bit under the bottommost shelf. And in front of that space, as still as a statue and staring straight ahead with the intensity of a tiger on the hunt, was the cat.</p>
<p class="TX">That cat did her job well.</p>
<p class="TX">The first thing we did was shut the cat into the basement office. (The dear boy watched out for Ms. Scoggin while I did the actual deed.) Then we met back at the mouse hole. All was quiet.</p>
<p class="TX">“Wait,” the boy breathed.</p>
<p class="TX">We waited.</p>
<p class="TX">In just a little while, a small nose appeared, along with some whiskers, a pair of small eyes, and some rather cute ears. The dear boy held out his hand, and the mouse approached. It was the color of a brown egg.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 96. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_96" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“You’ve been feeding it?” I whispered. If Ms. Scoggin discovered this, he would be banned from the library forever! “She will never forgive you,” I said.</p>
<p class="TX">He explained that he could not help it. He loved this mouse, and it depended on him, just like the mouse in the book depended on his friend the mole. “We have to save him,” he finished. “The cat will keep coming back until he gets him.”</p>
<p class="TX">I hesitated.</p>
<p class="TX">“Like in the book,” he repeated.</p>
<p class="TX">“Real life is not always like a book,” I told him. “We don’t want mice living here.”</p>
<p class="TX">“That’s why we have to move him somewhere else,” he said.</p>
<p class="TX">I shook my head. But I couldn’t say no.</p>
<p class="TX">And that is how, the following day, I came to spend eighteen dollars of my assistant-librarian salary on a cage, a bag of wood shavings, and a water bottle. All of it waited under my desk in a big bag until Ms. Scoggin went down to the basement office to sort the returned books. Then we moved fast.</p>
<p class="TX">The dear boy had brought some cheese and a glob of peanut butter in a plastic bag. The mouse was successfully lured.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 97. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_97" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“What will you tell your father?” I asked the boy, when we had closed the little cage door.</p>
<p class="TX">“What do you mean?” he asked, still smiling with the twin thrills of victory and relief.</p>
<p class="TX">“I mean”—and I pointed at the mouse, who was deeply engrossed in his snack—“where will you say he came from?”</p>
<p class="TX">He looked at me blankly. That was when I realized he meant for the mouse to come home with me.</p>
<p class="TX">“I have two dogs,” he explained. “It would be horrible for him at my house.”</p>
<p class="TX">That dear mouse lived with me, in my small apartment above the bakery, for the rest of his natural life. I named him “Eggy.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">A week after Mission Mouse, I found what looked like a crumpled-up paper bag on my desk chair, tied around the middle with a limp green ribbon. Inside was a small carved wooden mouse. It had two tiny nail heads for eyes, and a glued-on skinny leather tail. I held it, understanding that I had been given a treasure. Ms. Scoggin had several treasures on her desk, collected over the years and displayed with pride. But this was my first. The dear boy!</p>
<p class="TX">The dear boy.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>