<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-Four. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch34" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch34">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 170. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_170" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch34"><b>Chapter Thirty-Four</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch34"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Mortimer’s fifth day as guardian of the library was the most momentous of all. But not until the evening.</p>
<p class="TX">The day had been a busy one—there had been the fifth-grade graduation, and the graduation <i>picnic</i>. So many people had visited his library! They chose books, and talked about books, and gave Mortimer several more hugs than he actually needed. Some were tighter than others.</p>
<p class="TX">By the time the families shook out their blankets and packed up their books, their cameras, and their desserts, Mortimer was ready to rest.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Shore, the school librarian, had carried over (one at a time) three plastic bins full of beautiful picture books. The bins did not fit under the umbrella, but they <span aria-label=" Page 171. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_171" role="doc-pagebreak"/>had rainproof tops, and Mortimer discovered that it was very nice to spread himself across them and gaze at the clouds.</p>
<p class="TX">He had heard that people thought clouds looked like sheep. That was not Mortimer’s experience. He saw: a teacup, a jumping frog, a piece of cheese.</p>
<p class="TX">A snowball.</p>
<p class="TX">When he had looked at clouds for a long time, Mortimer himself felt a little like a cloud. An orange one, he supposed. A sort of <i>sun cloud</i>.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Guardian of the lib—</i></p>
<p class="TX">But he interrupted himself: <i>All my fault</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer felt like a cloud that could never let go of its silver rain.</p>
<p class="TX">He fell asleep and dreamed of Petunia.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">As soon as the sun got low, the mice began to arrive at the town green. Excited, very loud mice. They woke Mortimer up.</p>
<p class="TX">One small voice kept shouting about his first “grabation,” and Mortimer understood that the day was a special one for more than one species in Martinville. A lot of those parent-made desserts had left big crumbs in the grass.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer lazily flipped himself over and saw that a <span aria-label=" Page 172. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_172" role="doc-pagebreak"/>mouse was passing right in front of him. He didn’t recognize this one. Mortimer gave him a tired wave.</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse stopped. “I’ve heard about you. You’re the Six-Toed Grouch.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer lifted his head. “What?” This mouse was hard to hear, above the other mice, who were (he guessed) happily gathering cake crumbs.</p>
<p class="TX">“The Six-Toed Grouch!” The mouse gave a self-satisfied nod. “That’s what we call you.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh,” said Mortimer. His heart seemed to shrink a little.</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse now appeared a little less satisfied with himself. “<i>Well?”</i></p>
<p class="TX">“Well what?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Now <i>you’re</i> supposed to say something.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Okay. Something about what?”</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse sighed. “Stop playing games. You know, something about how I’m just a grubby little mouse, so who cares what I think?”</p>
<p class="TX">He walked up close to where Mortimer’s chin was resting on the edge of the plastic book bin.</p>
<p class="TX">“<i>Are</i> you grubby?” Mortimer said.</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse sat down. Or sat up, depending on how you looked at it. His bottom was now planted in the grass, and his front feet were up in the air.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 173. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_173" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“That’s irrelevant! And now I feel bad,” he added. “I was just taking the first turn. I thought if <i>I</i> didn’t, <i>you</i> would.”</p>
<p class="TX">“What’s your name?” Mortimer asked.</p>
<p class="TX">“Fred. Yours?”</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s Mortimer. But everyone calls me Goldie, or Sunshine, or Buffy. Or dear cat.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Mortimer,” said Fred.</p>
<p class="TX">It was good to hear someone say it. Mortimer suddenly wondered how long it had been since someone had called him by his own name.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Chase me, Mortimer! Chase me!</i></p>
<p class="TX">“Is it true,” Mortimer asked, “what you said? Everyone calls me the Six-Toed Grouch?”</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse looked down. “Yes. No. I mean, only everyone <i>I</i> know.”</p>
<p class="TX">Even lying next to a suitcase full of poetry, Mortimer felt very much alone when he heard that.</p>
<p class="TX">“Look on the bright side, though. At least you aren’t the Six-Toed <i>Monster</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Monster?” Mortimer lifted his head.</p>
<p class="TX">“Or the Gray Horror. Or the Striped Destroyer.”</p>
<p class="TX">What were all these names supposed to mean? “Well, no. I’m orange,” Mortimer said.</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse nodded. “Yes, I can see that.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 174. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_174" role="doc-pagebreak"/>It was time to change the subject. “Do you like poetry?” Mortimer asked.</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse scoffed. “I don’t have time to <i>read</i>. I am a wild animal! Don’t you know what that means? It means I have to find all my own food and shelter. I have to be always looking out for owls, hawks, opossums, and, you know…” He trailed off.</p>
<p class="TX">“Cats?” guessed Mortimer.</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes. Cats. And I must keep my brothers and sisters fed, and warm, and safe. I certainly do <i>not</i> have time to read. I shouldn’t even be standing here talking to you. I should be over <i>there</i>, gathering crumbs with the others!”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer thought guiltily of his food dish, and the comfortable chair he usually shared with Ms. Scoggin by the warm fire, and Al’s too-tight hugs. He thought about mouse doors one through five, and how he’d forced the mice—so many of them over the years!—to leave just as soon as they’d come in. All to protect Mr. Brock’s cheese and Al’s apples. The ghosts barely ate any of it. Why had he not shared?</p>
<p class="TX">Maybe he was much <i>worse</i> than a grouch.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Say sorry</i>, his heart said (still feeling shrunk).</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m sorry,” Mortimer said. The worst part, he admitted (only to himself), was that he <i>had</i> known the mice had <span aria-label=" Page 175. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_175" role="doc-pagebreak"/>hard lives. Of course he had known. He’d just thought it had nothing to do with him.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, well.” The mouse waved at him. “I’m sorry I called you a grouch. And my life’s not <i>so</i> bad. I have my family. My brothers and sisters. I’d be lost without them.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer nodded, stared glumly at his front paws, and thought about Petunia.</p>
<p class="TX">Following his gaze, Fred seemed to remember Mortimer’s twelve front claws. “Extra toes are nice, I think. Nothing wrong with that!” He took one step backward. “I’ll bet the Gray Horror wishes he had six toes on every foot!”</p>
<p class="TX">Something clicked. Mortimer looked sharply at Fred. “Are you saying,” Mortimer said, “that the Gray Horror is real? A real cat?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh yes, very real. Lives on Elm Street. I guess you don’t know him.”</p>
<p class="TX">“And the Striped Destroyer? Also real?” Mortimer was trying not get his hopes up.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Hope!</i> said his heart, in a small voice.</p>
<p class="TX">Fred nodded. “The Striped Destroyer lives over by the train station. Good eating there, especially on holiday weekends.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer hesitated. “And, the Six-Toed Monster?” he whispered. “Real?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 176. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_176" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Sure. She’s just like you—six on every foot. She lives in Grantville, at the movie theater, which is just <i>incredibly</i> frustrating, to be honest. We could eat for a <i>month</i> on what gets dropped at that movie theater on a single weekend, but—”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer was on his feet, his heart swelling with hope. <i>Hope, hope, hope!</i> It rushed at him from every direction.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Petunia!</i> his heart shouted.</p>
<p class="TX">With great speed, Fred retreated to the other side of the poetry suitcase. “We aren’t going to fight now, are we?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No, no!” Mortimer said. He sat down, in order to appear less … large. “No fighting.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer couldn’t see the whole thing yet, but an idea was starting to form inside him, like clouds gathering into a shape.</p>
<p class="TX">He would go to Grantville. To see if Petunia was the Six-Toed Monster. But first … first he had to do something else.</p>
<p class="TX">“Can you bring your brothers and sisters?” he asked Fred. “Bring them here? I know a safe place where there are apples and potatoes. And cheese. And not just today—<i>every</i> day.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Really?” Fred looked at him closely. “But it isn’t a trick, is it? If I bring them, they’ll be safe?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No tricks,” Mortimer said. “Safe. Hurry, Fred.”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>