<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Eighteen. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch18" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch18">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 87. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_87" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch18"><b>Chapter Eighteen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch18"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">I first saw the Martinville Library, and met Ms. Scoggin, the same week I started college in Grantville. I had just left the orphanage and was only seventeen years old. Everything felt very new and bewildering.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin had put an ad in the paper. She needed a “library helper,” and she hired me on the spot. I hoped there would not be as much toilet cleaning in Martinville as there had been at the grubby giant.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Ms. Scoggin told me, soon after I arrived, that every time she read a new book, she built a new room in her mind. “I have rooms and rooms up here now,” she said, tapping above her left ear, “but there’s always space for another one.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 88. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_88" role="doc-pagebreak"/>After that, whenever I looked into her shining brown eyes, I imagined an enormous and beautiful house on the other side of them.</p>
<p class="TX">I had a pretty big house behind my eyes, I realized. But I wanted a bigger one.</p>
<p class="TX">For some years, I did very little besides go to my classes, clean the library, and read books. Sometimes, Ms. Scoggin helped me choose them. Hunched over my breakfast, riding the bus, and in bed with my flashlight, I built room after room in my mind.</p>
<p class="TX">My house grew very large indeed. And, slowly, I stopped worrying about the mystery of my “from.” I did not have to imagine a tragic story about kind (but poor) acrobats, or smart (but selfish) bankers, because, I realized, I was “from” my own now-enormous house. The house I had built myself by reading all those books, with help from Ms. Scoggin, and from those flashlight batteries, which turned out to be, as the orphanage manager had promised, quite expensive.</p>
<p class="TX">It was only natural, once I had finally solved the question of my “from,” to start to wonder about my “to.” In other words, where was I going?</p>
<p class="TX">The answer was obvious. I was going to be a librarian. <span aria-label=" Page 89. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_89" role="doc-pagebreak"/>When I told Ms. Scoggin, her face went bright. She walked to her desk, opened a drawer, and pulled out an application for library school.</p>
<p class="TX">She’d already written my name at the top.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>