<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-One. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch21" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch21">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 98. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_98" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch21"><b>Chapter Twenty-One</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch21"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Thursday morning, Rafe was back on his corner, holding a can of bug spray. “Tuck your pants into your socks!” he shouted at Evan. “There could be ticks in there!”</p>
<p class="TX">“SHHHHH!” It was six thirty in the morning, and the whole reason they were out here this early was so that no one would see them. Evan stood not far away, covered in bug spray, confronted by a wall of thorny bushes. On the other side of it was the place where the Martinville Library had once stood. It was the best place he could think of to look for clues.</p>
<p class="TX">But it had looked a lot more “explorable” from the school bus window. Should he just push in? He wished for <span aria-label=" Page 99. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_99" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the thousandth time that his best friend was allowed to go places. It looked possible to get really lost in there.</p>
<p class="TX">But he figured that Rafe would at least tell someone to look for him, if Evan never came out. That was good.</p>
<p class="TX">“What are you waiting for?” Rafe shouted. Rafe always said that when he was finally allowed, he was going to do absolutely e-v-e-r-y-t-h-i-n-g, at least once. But that was easy to say.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan felt something move against his leg, and his heart gave a wild thump before he realized it was only the cat. Goldie. Sunshine. “Do you have a real name?” he asked the cat.</p>
<p class="TX">The cat gave him a three-part meow and then moved between his feet, rubbing his cheek against Evan’s right sneaker, and then the left one.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan was really glad to see that cat, he realized. “Hi, cat,” he said softly.</p>
<p class="TX">He felt a little better after that. He drew his thumb down his forehead, tightening his imaginary cap so that it wouldn’t get pulled off by something in the thicket in front of him. And then he plunged into the wall of green.</p>
<p class="TX">He parted branches and leaves with his hands as he walked, slowly, trying to go in a straight line. He’d imagined a clearing, partway in, but couldn’t see one anywhere. <span aria-label=" Page 100. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_100" role="doc-pagebreak"/>It was hard to imagine that the big library Mr. O’Neal had described, which Evan pictured as almost a castle with large blue doors, could have stood right here. But his dad always said that if all the humans disappeared from Earth, pretty soon you would never even know they had been here, because nature was so powerful it would grow up over everything, pulling down the buildings and the bridges …</p>
<p class="TX">He sucked in his breath and stopped to disentangle himself from a skinny but viciously thorny branch that had attached itself to his sleeve. There was another one clinging to his sock. He bent down to pull it off. Were they trying to grab him? <i>No</i>, he told himself. Nothing was trying to grab him.</p>
<p class="TX">When he straightened up, all he saw were more branches and leaves, and he couldn’t even remember which direction he’d been walking in. Why did this feel so impossible? Then, suddenly, the cat was there again, daintily stepping through the bush. He made a quick circle around Evan before setting off at an angle.</p>
<p class="TX">“Wait up!” Evan said, and followed the cat.</p>
<p class="TX">There <i>was</i> a clearing, just a few feet beyond where Evan had been standing. He felt his lungs expand the moment he stepped into it, took a deep breath, and said, “Wow.”</p>
<p class="TX">There was a kind of ruin here, not like the ancient ruins they’d studied in Mr. O’Neal’s class, but still a ruin. A stony <span aria-label=" Page 101. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_101" role="doc-pagebreak"/>foundation poked up here and there from the grass. Evan stepped up onto a crumbling chunk of it and, balancing, saw that if he could draw a line connecting all the stony parts, he would be looking at a big, empty square, with a cat sitting in the middle of it.</p>
<p class="TX">This was the library. He jumped off his chunk, into the square. The cat stayed put, head up and feet neatly put together, looking very much at home. “This is it!” Evan told him. “We’re in the library!”</p>
<p class="TX">It <i>almost</i> looked like the cat nodded at him. Just once.</p>
<p class="TX">That’s when Evan realized: There was no basement. He felt his heart drop. He’d known there wouldn’t be a <i>building</i> here anymore, but he’d imagined that there’d somehow be a basement. The basement <i>where the fire had started</i>, according to that newspaper article Rafe found online. The basement where he’d hoped to find some clues. Or <i>one</i> clue, even.</p>
<p class="TX">“They must’ve filled it in,” he told the cat. Evan walked all the way around the library’s footprint, looking for clues. There were some blackened bits of stuff—metal? wood?—just tiny shards of unrecognizable things. He touched a few, but they were nothing. He did another loop around. He found an old dime. Nothing good.</p>
<p class="TX">The cat stayed right where he was, and even though <span aria-label=" Page 102. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_102" role="doc-pagebreak"/>nothing felt exactly <i>scary</i>, Evan was glad he wasn’t in there by himself.</p>
<p class="TX">Then he heard Rafe’s voice. “ARE YOU OKAY?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan smiled. Even if his legs did get hairy in middle school, Rafe would be there, too. Suddenly that seemed really, really good. He yelled back, “YES! I’M OKAY!”</p>
<p class="TX">But he was also ready to give up. He touched the scratches along his neck and wished he knew the fastest way out.</p>
<p class="TX">“DO ME A FAVOR!” he yelled. “CALL THE CAT!”</p>
<p class="TX">“DID YOU SAY ‘CALL THE CAT’?”</p>
<p class="TX">“YES, CALL HIM!”</p>
<p class="TX">After a second, Rafe’s voice boomed out, louder than ever. “HERE, SUNSHINE! HERE, KITTY-KITTY!”</p>
<p class="TX">The cat stayed where he was. Evan walked over, wondering if he should pet him. But not all cats liked to be petted, and Evan had been scratched up enough for one day.</p>
<p class="TX">“HERE, KITTY-KITTY-KITTY!”</p>
<p class="TX">The cat looked up at Evan, and then lifted one paw. There was something between his feet, Evan realized. Something that looked like … a ring?</p>
<p class="TX">Slowly, he dropped into a squat and reached for it.</p>
<p class="TX">“HEEEEEERE, SUNNY!”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan hadn’t realized how loud Rafe could make himself. <span aria-label=" Page 103. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_103" role="doc-pagebreak"/>But he didn’t care about people seeing them anymore. He had found an actual clue. It <i>had</i> to be a clue.</p>
<p class="TX">“MR. KITTY CAT!” Rafe boomed. “COME!”</p>
<p class="TX">Almost as if he’d been waiting to hear his proper name, the cat rotated his ears, raised his tail, and started moving lightly toward Rafe’s voice.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan followed, clutching two very dirty keys on a ring.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>