<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Sixteen. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch16" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch16">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 75. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_75" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch16"><b>Chapter Sixteen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch16"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">The house feels different without the library cart in the basement. <i>We</i> are different. The dear cat remains outdoors with the books. And now suddenly Mr. Brock can’t keep hold of the broom. It passes right through his fingers.</p>
<p class="TX">Another thing: Supper has become quite somber. Last night, Mr. Brock, after so many years of cheerful suppertime book chatter with Ms. Scoggin, just gazed at his potato or looked sadly at the book on his lap.</p>
<p class="TX">He sniffed loudly and said, “Ms. Scoggin, the young woman in this story is being treated most unfairly. <i>Most</i> unfairly! I do wish I could help. But I suppose you will tell me that I am only a ghost.” He looked miserable.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 76. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_76" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Maybe the lady’s future is brighter than you think!” I said, trying to cheer him up. In fact, Mr. Brock had told Ms. Scoggin all about the ending of this book just a day ago, and so I knew what I was talking about. But, as always, he pretended not to hear me.</p>
<p class="TX">“Things will get better,” Ms. Scoggin said, patting Mr. Brock’s hand. “I am sure of it.” She attempted to pick up her teacup. I watched her fingers pass through the handle several times before she managed it.</p>
<p class="TX">“I hope you are right,” Mr. Brock said. “A ghost can only hope, I suppose.” He gave a long sigh. “What courage!” Then he paused, and a suspicious look came over him. “But, Ms. Scoggin, I suddenly have the strangest feeling that I have read this book before.” Mr. Brock’s shoulders slumped. “I have no doubt told you all about it? Before?”</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin and I exchanged a look.</p>
<p class="TX">“And I have listened with such joy, every time!” she said.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. Brock used to remember every book he read. I had fetched hundreds of them over the years, from the library in Grantville. But recently he has begun to read the same story again and again, without even noticing.</p>
<p class="TX">“But how wonderful, Mr. Brock,” I said quietly, “to be <span aria-label=" Page 77. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_77" role="doc-pagebreak"/>able to read the books you love most, as if for the first time! I am quite jealous.”</p>
<p class="TX">He is very good at pretending that he neither sees nor hears me. But he sat up a little straighter, gazed at Ms. Scoggin, and managed to produce a small smile. “I am a lucky man,” he announced.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin’s forehead was tight. She looked almost distressed.</p>
<p class="TX">“Is he all right?” I whispered.</p>
<p class="TX">“My dear,” she said in a low voice, “this cannot go on forever, you know.” She gestured impatiently. At the table? At ourselves, sitting around it? I wondered if she was unhappy with my dinner. I had served baked potatoes for several nights in a row.</p>
<p class="TX">“What cannot go on?” I asked her. “Are you talking about Mr. Brock’s books, or the potatoes?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Potatoes!” She exploded. “What does this have to do with potatoes? I am talking about <i>us</i>. We can’t stay much longer, my dear!”</p>
<p class="TX">Whenever she starts talking like that, I pretend not to hear her. I learned how from Mr. Brock.</p>
<p class="TX">They went to bed early, while I stayed up worrying (and washing the dishes). It was painful to see Ms. Scoggin <span aria-label=" Page 78. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_78" role="doc-pagebreak"/>so upset. But it’s hard to solve a problem when you don’t know what it is.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Today, I woke up determined to make the day a good one. I fixed Ms. Scoggin’s tea, put two sugar cubes on her saucer, climbed the stairs, and knocked on her door.</p>
<p class="TX">“Come in!” she barked.</p>
<p class="TX">I put on an extra-large smile and entered her room.</p>
<p class="TX">She was sitting up in bed, fiddling with her pin.</p>
<p class="TX">“It won’t stay on straight!” she said. “Impossible thing!”</p>
<p class="TX">Gently, I took it from her and fastened it to her shirt. “There,” I said. “It’s perfectly level! And here’s your tea.”</p>
<p class="TX">She sighed. “Thank you, my dear. I’m just a bit tired today.”</p>
<p class="TX">Her librarian pin, from our library days, an impossible thing? I had never once heard her complain about it before. I touched two fingers to my own pin and hoped this was not another Changed Thing.</p>
<p class="TX">As I was closing Ms. Scoggin’s door behind me, I heard two quick knocks from below. My heart jumped, and I rushed down the stairs and opened the front door.</p>
<p class="TX">No one. Just a small paper bag. I scooped it up.</p>
<p class="TX">I knew what was in the bag: a tuna fish and dill pickle sandwich on rye bread, with lettuce. In my library days, it was <span aria-label=" Page 79. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_79" role="doc-pagebreak"/>my favorite lunch. The sandwich arrives every Wednesday, but I am never quick enough to see who has left it for me.</p>
<p class="TX">I carried it, smiling, to the icebox. But then I thought, what’s wrong with tuna for breakfast? (Especially after a week of potatoes?) So here I sit, eating it, and thinking about the dear boy again. It must be because of all the fuss about the library pins.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">One day, long ago, when I was still getting to know him, I asked Ms. Scoggin for some advice. Could I be doing more to draw the dear boy out? To make him want to sit with us on the rug during Wednesday Book Club?</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin said, “His mother died last summer. My advice is to let him sit where he wants to.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh,” I said. And she gave me an understanding look.</p>
<p class="TX">As Ms. Scoggin knew, I was also motherless. In fact, I had no memory of a mother or a father. At the orphanage, it had sometimes been said that those of us without parent memories were the lucky ones. But I was never sure about that.</p>
<p class="TX">It’s true that I did not long for my parents, the way some others did. But aren’t “parents” the source of a life’s direction? If life is a line, leading somewhere, aren’t parents the dot from which it sets forth?</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 80. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_80" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Even people who disliked their parents, as one or two of my orphanage friends claimed to do, had a “from.”</p>
<p class="TX">But me?</p>
<p class="TX">I was told that I could make up my own “from.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Imagine whatever you like!” the orphanage manager told me. “Any of it could be true. Anything!”</p>
<p class="TX">But I did not know where to start. Were they farmers? Acrobats? Doctors? Spies? Sailors? Horse people?</p>
<p class="TX">Were they kind? Careless? Selfish? Brave? Horrible? Wonderful?</p>
<p class="TX">I would lie in bed, imagining. It was hard work. I preferred, once I had been taught how, to read stories that other people had imagined.</p>
<p class="TX">First, I read all the stories in the book room at the orphanage, and then I found all the other places books were hiding in the building. Our cook had a wonderful collection in her bedroom—she had kept every book she loved as a child. I worked my way through her shelves while “helping” in the kitchen, which meant occasionally stirring the soup with a spoon in one hand while holding a book with the other.</p>
<p class="TX">Then, in third grade, I discovered the public library. There were, I realized, many, many books to be read. (Until then, I had been slightly worried about running <span aria-label=" Page 81. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_81" role="doc-pagebreak"/>out.) At the orphanage, each of us had a flashlight, and I began to stay up very late with mine, reading until my eyes would not stay open. Which meant that I usually did not manage to turn my flashlight off. Luckily, I knew where the batteries were kept.</p>
<p class="TX">And then the orphanage manager found me rooting through the battery drawer, which was almost empty. She told me, gently, that I would need to start getting my own batteries.</p>
<p class="TX">“Let’s go to the battery library, then,” I told her. “I’m going to need a lot.”</p>
<p class="TX">She laughed. “The <i>what</i>?”</p>
<p class="TX">“The <i>battery</i> library,” I insisted, shaking my flashlight at her. “To borrow <i>batteries</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">There were no battery libraries. Batteries had to be bought with money. Batteries, she explained, were expensive. And once you were done with them, that was it, they were used up.</p>
<p class="TX">For the first time, it occurred to me that books <i>don’t</i> get used up. Books got powered by the reader, didn’t they? They could be read again and again. (As long as no one dropped them into the soup. Which only happened once.)</p>
<p class="TX">But I still needed batteries.</p>
<p class="TX">The manager said that I had given her an idea. She <span aria-label=" Page 82. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_82" role="doc-pagebreak"/>would lend me battery money now, and I could pay her back later.</p>
<p class="TX">“How?” I asked her. “I don’t have any money to pay you back with.”</p>
<p class="TX">She said I would get a job, when I was older. Since I liked books so much, maybe I could get a job at a library. And that is what happened.</p>
<p class="TX">My first job was at our city library, an old, very large, not-too-clean building squeezed between a small bank and a smaller hardware store. To me, that library always looked like a grubby giant whose arms had been tied behind its back. My job was after school, because I was only thirteen years old. Mostly I mopped and looked with great longing at the young adults who stamped the circulation cards, wheeled around the squeaky carts full of books, and talked to the patrons. (About books!) They were, I learned, <i>assistant librarians</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">I mopped. And cleaned toilets. Nobody talked to me.</p>
<p class="TX">But I had library privileges. And battery money.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>