<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-Five. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch35" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch35">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 177. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_177" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch35"><b>Chapter Thirty-Five</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch35"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">While he waited for Fred to come back, Mortimer looked around at his library and thought about all the people who had visited it in just these few days. He thought about Winnie D. and Mrs. Baker, and Mr. Gregorian, and Ms. Shore, and everyone else who had brought a book, or left one. He thought about faces like question marks, and the beautiful smell of books.</p>
<p class="TX">And the night of the fire.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Guardian of the library</i>, he tried to tell himself.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Not quite</i>, his heart said. Because what he was guarding was not the library.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer was guarding a secret.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1"><span aria-label=" Page 178. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_178" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Ten minutes later, Fred returned with a line of brothers and sisters in tow.</p>
<p class="TX">“I could only get eight,” he said. “Everyone else refused to leave the picnic.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Eight brothers and sisters</i>, Mortimer thought. <i>Imagine it</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">Fred introduced them: Fern, Flora, Finn (good ol’ Finn!), Frank, Fiona, Faye, Fergus, and Flavia.</p>
<p class="TX">“All <i>F</i>s,” Mortimer said, waving at Finn, who gave him a small wave back.</p>
<p class="TX">“Really?” Frank said. “All <i>F</i>s? I never noticed that.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer looked at him.</p>
<p class="TX">“He’s kidding!” Flavia shouted. “Of course we’ve noticed!”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer scanned the brave line of them and said, “I need your help.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">A few minutes later, they had a very basic plan. The mice would enter the History House through one of its five mouse doors while Mortimer got himself let in by Al through the front. They would all meet up at the fireplace in the parlor.</p>
<p class="TX">“Five!” Flavia shouted. “Ha! There are nine mouse holes in that old house. At <i>least</i> nine!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Nine?” Mortimer repeated. “Is this another joke?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 179. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_179" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The mice assured him that it wasn’t.</p>
<p class="TX">“Well, okay.” Mortimer’s confidence was slightly shaken, but there was no time to dwell on it. “Nine doors. Take your pick, I guess. When Al lets me in, I’ll run straight to the parlor and jump up to the mantel. That’s where we keep the matches.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Can you even jump that high?” Flavia shouted. “You look kind of old.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Of course I can,” Mortimer said. The truth was that he planned to use Ms. Scoggin’s chair to get himself up to the mantel. Once he was on the back of that chair, it was easy to hop over. But he didn’t explain this to the very loud Flavia, who was beginning to remind him of Petunia.</p>
<p class="TX">“Where was I?” he said.</p>
<p class="TX">“In the parlor,” Faye said.</p>
<p class="TX">“On the mantel,” Finn added. “With the matches.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Right. And you remember the rest of it?”</p>
<p class="TX">They did.</p>
<p class="TX">“Except you haven’t told us <i>why</i>,” Flavia shouted. “What’s it all <i>for?</i>”</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s for telling the truth,” Mortimer told her. “And by the way, don’t run away if Ms. Scoggin screams a lot right at the beginning. She’s afraid of mice, but once we get started, I think she’ll pay attention.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 180. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_180" role="doc-pagebreak"/>They nodded. And looked at him expectantly.</p>
<p class="TX">“Um. Did I forget anything?” Mortimer asked.</p>
<p class="TX">Fred cleared his throat. “Well. There is <i>one</i> detail, but it’s not important right now, I suppose—”</p>
<p class="TX">“Where are the apples?” Flavia shouted. “Where is the <i>cheese</i>? And where’s my <i>poem</i>? Fred said you have poems here, and I have never even <i>tasted</i> one!”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer explained.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The mice did not remember the night of the library fire. Mice, to put it bluntly, do not live that long. But they had heard about it. “We call it ‘the terrible fire,’” Fred had told him. “Every mouse pup hears the story. It’s why we never, ever pick up—<i>you</i> know.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Matches,” Mortimer said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes.” Fred shuddered. “So you can see that we’re really going the extra mile here. Breaking our rule for you, I mean.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I am grateful,” Mortimer said. “A one-time performance. We will need to be very convincing.”</p>
<p class="TX">“We’re ready,” Finn said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Let’s <i>go</i>!” Flavia shouted. She thrust a tiny fist into the air.</p>
<p class="TX">“Showtime!” Fred said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Cheese time!” Flavia shouted. “Apple time!” She gave a <span aria-label=" Page 181. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_181" role="doc-pagebreak"/>little jump, landing on her back feet with her hands clasped over her head. “Potato time!”</p>
<p class="TX">Finn rolled his eyes. Flavia began to wobble, and Faye put out a hand to steady her.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer looked at the mice and felt … something.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Longing</i>, his heart said.</p>
<p class="TX">And then Fred gave a practiced whistle, and everyone scattered.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>