<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-Three. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch33" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch33">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 164. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_164" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch33"><b>Chapter Thirty-Three</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch33"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">“Dad!” Evan wasn’t even in the house yet. He was shouting from the driveway. “Dad!”</p>
<p class="TX">His father’s worried face appeared on the other side of the cellar window, near Evan’s feet.</p>
<p class="TX">“Dad!” Evan talked at the window. “I know about the library. I know what everybody thinks—that you…” He couldn’t make himself say it.</p>
<p class="TX">His dad’s face went away. Ten seconds later, his father banged out through the screen door with hard eyes and blotchy cheeks. “Who told you that?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No one told me!” Evan said. “I figured it out myself.” He held up <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i>. “Everyone thinks <span aria-label=" Page 165. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_165" role="doc-pagebreak"/>you set that fire, don’t they? But I know what to do—I think I know who did it!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Slow down,” his dad said. “Start at the beginning.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Why won’t you <i>talk</i> to me?” Evan started to cry. Which he had not expected.</p>
<p class="TX">His dad’s face changed. His shoulders relaxed, and he said, “I guess I haven’t known <i>how</i> to talk about this with you. Let’s go sit on the rock.” He reached out, took Evan’s hand, and led the way around back, to the big rock Evan’s grandmother had named the “rock of truth” when his dad was little.</p>
<p class="TX">It was still warm from the sun.</p>
<p class="TX">“Upsetting you is the last thing I wanted, Evan,” his dad started. “I didn’t set the library fire, but I’m sure plenty of people still think I did. I was there that night. And I was questioned by the police, several times. It’s not something I like to think about. I guess I hoped you would never hear about it. That was—unrealistic.” He smiled, a little. “I should have been the one to tell you about all this. I’m sorry I didn’t.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan waited. The first rule of the rock of truth was “no lying.” The second rule was “no interrupting.”</p>
<p class="TX">But his dad seemed to be out of words. Evan said, “The paper said the fire started in the basement. A match had been struck and held to a book.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 166. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_166" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Evan’s father shook his head. “That’s something I would never do. Never. But I was the only person there.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Are you totally sure, though? That you were the only person there?”</p>
<p class="TX">His dad nodded. “But I didn’t light any match. I was questioned, like I said. Word got around.” He stopped.</p>
<p class="TX">“The article said there was an intern.” Evan pointed at his father. “<i>You</i> were the intern?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes. After my mom died, going to the library … helped me. I felt safe there, like nothing bad could get me. When I was fourteen, the head librarian asked me if I’d like an after-school job, as a helper. I couldn’t believe it—getting paid to be at the library? I told her yes. Her name was Mildred Scoggin, and she was a great lady. She was also a strict lady, and she was usually yelling at one of us—at me, I mean, or at the assistant librarian.</p>
<p class="TX">“Anyway, one afternoon she told me off about something or other, and then sent me down to the basement to deal with the book returns. The book-return chute sent the books down there, to a bin. I would replace the circulation cards, stack the books on a cart, and reshelve them.</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m sure I felt like an idiot for getting yelled at in front of everyone, but like I said, she was the boss, and she did a lot of that. But the police made a big deal about it, later. <span aria-label=" Page 167. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_167" role="doc-pagebreak"/>They kept asking if I was <i>angry</i>. And I kept telling them, <i>no</i>, she was always like that. Al—the assistant librarian—called them Ms. Scoggin’s ‘Criticisms and Reminders.’ We had kind of a joke about it. So going down to the basement to do the book returns, it really felt like any other day.”</p>
<p class="TX">“But it wasn’t any other day,” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX">“No. It was the day the library burned down.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Did she—die? Ms. Scoggin?”</p>
<p class="TX">His father hesitated only for a moment. “Yes. Mildred Scoggin died of smoke inhalation.”</p>
<p class="TX">“You got out, though.”</p>
<p class="TX">His dad nodded. “Al saved me. She dragged me outside, through the basement door. But I know a lot of people around here still think I started that fire.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan was swept by a rush of anger. “How could you <i>let</i> them think it?”</p>
<p class="TX">His father looked sad. “I didn’t ‘let them’ think it. I <i>always</i> said I didn’t do it. But how could I prove what <i>didn’t</i> happen, without knowing what <i>did</i> happen? I still have no idea.”</p>
<p class="TX">“<i>I</i> believe you, Dad. I know you didn’t set that fire. You <i>didn’t</i>.” Evan’s eyes filled with tears of frustration. Possibly the worst kind of tears.</p>
<p class="TX">His father opened his arms, and Evan leaned into them. They sat like that for a while, while Evan’s mind rushed <span aria-label=" Page 168. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_168" role="doc-pagebreak"/>around: <i>It was H. G. Higgins</i>, he thought. <i>He was there that day.</i></p>
<p class="TX"><i>The book, the Polaroid picture, the keys, the treehouse. Everything led to H. G. Higgins.</i></p>
<p class="TX">“Dad. I have a suspect.”</p>
<p class="TX">His father drew back. “A what?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Someone who was at the library that day. I have his book, and I found his keys, and I know he used to live around here somewhere. It’s <i>H. G. Higgins</i>, Dad. He’s a famous writer, but his whole life is a secret.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Evan—”</p>
<p class="TX">“We should tell the police! Or the fire warden. It’s not too late, is it? And then everyone will know they were wrong about you. This is a big deal, Dad. People <i>died!</i>”</p>
<p class="TX">“Back up, kiddo. You’re saying that you think <i>the writer H. G. Higgins</i> started the library fire?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Why in the world do you believe that?”</p>
<p class="TX">“He returned a book that day—I have the book! He was there!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Okay. Let’s say that’s true. And fifty other people probably returned books that day, too.”</p>
<p class="TX">“But his book had a picture in it—a picture someone took from the treehouse in the woods.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 169. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_169" role="doc-pagebreak"/>His dad looked at him. “Can I see it?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan unzipped his bag and yanked it from the book. “That’s probably him in the picture! And his keys were at the old library ground. One of them opened the padlock on the treehouse!”</p>
<p class="TX">His father held up the Polaroid. “This isn’t H. G. Higgins. This is a terrible picture of your teacher, Mr. O’Neal. Of his eye, anyway. I took it myself when we were teenagers, with his camera.”</p>
<p class="TX">“What?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Everything you’re saying suggests that H. G. Higgins lived around here once. Maybe he took out that book. Maybe he climbed up to the treehouse, which, by the way, you are <i>not</i> allowed to do. But what makes you think he would set fire to the library?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan didn’t actually know. He just didn’t want the bad guy to be anyone from Martinville. He wanted it to be someone <i>not from here</i>. “I don’t know the motive, yet,” he admitted. “But I’ll figure it out. First we have to find him.”</p>
<p class="TX">And that’s when his father reached into his back pocket and withdrew a small envelope, folded in half. Evan caught sight of the writing and knew exactly what his dad was holding. It was the letter he had written to H. G. Higgins.</p>
<p class="TX">“Evan,” his dad said, “I’m H. G. Higgins.”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>