<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Eleven. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch11" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch11">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 43. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_43" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch11"><b>Chapter Eleven</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch11"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Mortimer’s window had shown him the moon on many nights, but it had not prepared him for his first night under the sky.</p>
<p class="TX">The sky!</p>
<p class="TX"><i>The countless stars</i>, his heart said, <i>and their light dust</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">The air!</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Soft and warm</i>, his heart said, <i>with wind tickles.</i></p>
<p class="TX">The sounds!</p>
<p class="TX"><i>The frogs’ night singing. All at once, but also taking turns.</i></p>
<p class="TX">And how did they all know to stop singing at exactly the same moment?</p>
<p class="TX">That was pretty interesting.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1"><span aria-label=" Page 44. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_44" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Often, right after a thought played through his head, Mortimer heard a funny kind of echo. Ever since he was a kitten.</p>
<p class="TX">One night, not long before they were separated by the fire, Mortimer asked Petunia whether she had an echo, too. They were in the basement of the library, in their corner, ready to sleep.</p>
<p class="TX">“Silly,” Petunia had said. “That is not an echo. An echo only repeats.”</p>
<p class="TX">“What is it, then?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I think that’s your heart talking.”</p>
<p class="TX">“My <i>heart</i> talks?”</p>
<p class="TX">“In a way.” And then Petunia rested one paw on Mortimer’s neck and fell asleep.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">He stretched out in the grass under his library, looked at the stars, thought of Petunia, and felt connected to the world.</p>
<p class="TX">And at the same time, a little lonely.</p>
<p class="TX">His upstairs window had shown him many things over the years. But now he could not help wondering what else his window had <i>not</i> shown him.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 45. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_45" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Suddenly, Mortimer heard voices. Loud voices. <i>Mouse</i> voices.</p>
<p class="TX">“Ya! Ya!” a small mouse voice said. “That’s what I told him! <i>Ya!</i> Really loud! And then, I don’t exactly know how, but I did it! I dropped it. And he was left holding it, wondering where I had gone!”</p>
<p class="TX">Laughter.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer scanned the grass until he saw three tiny figures moving in a line.</p>
<p class="TX">Dropped what, he wondered? And who was left holding it? But he knew that if he asked, they would all start yelling at him or running away. So he stayed very quiet.</p>
<p class="TX">“You showed him, Finn!” someone said. “<i>Take that, you dumb old owl!”</i></p>
<p class="TX">“Actually, I think it was a hawk,” Finn said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh. Take that, you dumb hawk!”</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m proud of you,” another voice said. “And in a few weeks, you’ll be good as new.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes, Mama.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mama? Mortimer twitched. A mama mouse. He had never really thought about it before, but of course mice had mothers. It made sense.</p>
<p class="TX">“Tell me the truth, honey. Did it hurt?”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 46. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_46" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“No, Mama.”</p>
<p class="TX">They weren’t walking toward the History House, so Mortimer tried not to worry about the five unguarded mouse doors.</p>
<p class="TX">He tried not to think about the apples, the potato bins, or Mr. Brock’s now-doorless cheese cupboard.</p>
<p class="TX">He just listened, until he couldn’t hear them anymore.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer could still remember his own mother, a little bit: She was soft. And fierce. Mostly gray, with white feet that made her look like she was wearing socks.</p>
<p class="TX">He looked at the stars and hoped that Petunia, wherever she was, could see them, too.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>