<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Six. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch26" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch26">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 129. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_129" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch26"><b>Chapter Twenty-Six</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch26"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Friday morning, Evan’s parents made him a special graduation breakfast, French toast with bananas. His mom squeezed fresh orange juice, and his dad cooked the bananas with sugar in a pan, making them sweet and crunchy. When they were sitting at the table, his parents looked pretty happy. His mom had actually taken her headset off, and his dad was laughing. Maybe, Evan thought, he should stop trying to solve a mystery that probably didn’t exist.</p>
<p class="TX">He tried not to wonder about H. G. Higgins.</p>
<p class="TX">He tried to worry about nothing other than keeping his button-down shirt clean for graduation that afternoon.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1"><span aria-label=" Page 130. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_130" role="doc-pagebreak"/>He was stuffing books into his backpack near the back door when his mom asked, “Have you been back to the little free library, Ev? I drove by yesterday—people sure seem to love it.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan hadn’t been back. He could see it across the street on his way to school, though. It was definitely growing.</p>
<p class="TX">His dad said, “I’d like to see it, too. Maybe after graduation?”</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s weird they never rebuilt the <i>real</i> library,” Evan said. “Why didn’t they?”</p>
<p class="TX">His mom cleared her throat. “Well, when the library burned down, it was a really painful time—for the town.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Dad? I mean, you <i>lived</i> here.” His mother had grown up in California. She and his dad had met in college. “Didn’t anyone want to rebuild it?”</p>
<p class="TX">His dad was staring at the table. He said, “If anyone did think about rebuilding, I’d be the last person in town they would talk to about it.”</p>
<p class="TX">The kitchen felt quieter than it had ever been. Even the refrigerator seemed to hold its breath.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan said, “Why?”</p>
<p class="TX">But his dad just smiled. “I don’t know why I said that, Evan. I guess I didn’t get much sleep.”</p>
<p class="TX">“The school librarian said you used to work at the <span aria-label=" Page 131. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_131" role="doc-pagebreak"/>library, when you were in high school. Were you working there when it burned down? Did you know those people who died?”</p>
<p class="TX">His dad looked at the floor. “I have so many emails to answer, Evan. I can’t have this conversation right now. I’ll see you at graduation.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes, the picnic!” his mom said, fiddling with the headphones that hung around her neck. “Dad’s making a pie.” She was nervous, Evan realized.</p>
<p class="TX">“You guys!” Evan said. “You can’t just—not tell me anything!”</p>
<p class="TX">His parents studied him. The way they were looking at him made Evan feel, for those few seconds, like he could see himself through their eyes. He stood tall and looked right back at them.</p>
<p class="TX">Then his dad looked up and said, “You’re right, Evan. How about after the picnic you and I talk? We can walk home together.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan hesitated. “This afternoon? You won’t back out?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No chance. It’s a plan. So get yourself on the road, and let me do my work and start up this pie.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan glanced at his mom, who was smiling across the kitchen at his dad. His dad would explain it all. Today! Why hadn’t he just asked him before?</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 132. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_132" role="doc-pagebreak"/>He left the house feeling closer than ever to solving his probably-not-even-a-mystery.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The day felt long, even for a half day. Evan mostly looked around their classroom and felt weird that they were never coming back to it. He couldn’t even eat his lunch, but he wasn’t sure if it was because he was excited about graduating, nervous about talking to his dad later, or sad about leaving Martinville Elementary. Through the cafeteria windows, they started to hear cars pull up. The families were coming.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. O’Neal excused himself, and everyone knew why. Every year, he bought a new bow tie for graduation, and he always put it on right before the ceremony started. The ties were usually … colorful.</p>
<p class="TX">“What do you think it’ll be?” Evan asked Rafe, who was eating Evan’s sandwich. “Polka dots? Rainbow stripes?”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe chewed. “Baseballs, maybe?”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>“Baseballs?”</i></p>
<p class="TX">Then Mr. O’Neal reappeared, wearing a bow tie with little books on it. Some of the kids clapped. “In honor of our new little free library,” he said, patting his tie. “This is it! Graduation time. Let’s line up.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 133. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_133" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Then the other fifth-grade teacher, Ms. Brennan, called out, “Let’s move, people!” and her class jumped up and mobbed the door. Mr. O’Neal rolled his eyes.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Chairs had been set up on the lawn outside, and it was sunny out, with what Evan’s mom liked to call a “perfect breeze.” While they marched down to their seats near the front, kids waved to their parents and pointed at the rows of desserts waiting on the long table near the podium. Evan found his parents and waved. Then he caught up to Rafe in line so they could sit together.</p>
<p class="TX">Each year, the fifth-grade teachers picked poems to read at graduation. This year it was Mr. O’Neal’s turn to read first. “This year’s graduating class is an especially lovely and deep group of students,” he said, unfolding a piece of paper. “So I picked an especially deep and lovely poem. It’s called ‘The Summer Day,’ and it was written by the American poet Mary Oliver.”</p>
<p class="TX">He cleared his throat, and began:</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="VF1">“Who made the world?</p>
<p class="VM">Who made the swan, and the black bear?</p>
<p class="VM">Who made the grasshopper?</p>
<p class="VM">This grasshopper, I mean—</p>
<p class="VM"><span aria-label=" Page 134. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_134" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the one who has flung herself out of the grass,</p>
<p class="VM">the one who is eating sugar out of my hand,</p>
<p class="VM">who is moving her jaws back and forth instead of up and down—</p>
<p class="VM">who is gazing around with her enormous and complicated eyes.</p>
<p class="VM">Now she lifts her pale forearms and thoroughly washes her face.</p>
<p class="VM">Now she snaps her wings open, and floats away.</p>
<p class="VM">I don’t know exactly what a prayer is.</p>
<p class="VM">I do know how to pay attention, how to fall down</p>
<p class="VM">into the grass, how to kneel down in the grass,</p>
<p class="VM">how to be idle and blessed, how to stroll through the fields,</p>
<p class="VM">which is what I have been doing all day.</p>
<p class="VM">Tell me, what else should I have done?</p>
<p class="VM">Doesn’t everything die at last, and too soon?</p>
<p class="VM">Tell me, what is it you plan to do</p>
<p class="VL">with your one wild and precious life?”</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX">Mr. O’Neal looked up from his paper, smiled, and blew them all a kiss.</p>
<p class="TX">“Wow,” Rafe said.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan turned around in his chair to look at his parents. <span aria-label=" Page 135. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_135" role="doc-pagebreak"/>His dad was wiping at his eyes. He saw his mom lean over to kiss him on the cheek.</p>
<p class="TX">Then Ms. Brennan was marching up to the podium. She grabbed it with both hands and leaned forward.</p>
<p class="TX">“Life is like riding a bicycle!” she shouted. “To keep your balance, you must keep moving! Albert Einstein said that!” She turned around and walked back to her seat.</p>
<p class="TX">Then the fifth graders stood up to get their diplomas, one by one. Mr. O’Neal stood off to the side and shook hands with every kid in their class. When it was Evan’s turn, he said, “Keep looking for life’s mysteries, kid.”</p>
<p class="TX">And that was it. Everyone turned their attention to the dessert table.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">There were sixty different kinds of cakes, pies, brownies, and cookies.</p>
<p class="TX">Correction, <i>fifty-nine</i>: Rafe’s parents had brought a bag of mixed nuts, because they “worried about sugar.”</p>
<p class="TX">Plus, they said, Rafe had that dentist appointment right after the picnic.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">“Do they remember about the expiration?” Evan asked Rafe. They were on a blanket, eating five kinds of cookies. And this was only round one.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 136. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_136" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Rafe shook his head. “I have a feeling they forgot all about it. But it’s probably better that way.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah, they look nice and relaxed.” Squinting, Evan had picked out Rafe’s parents in the crowd standing around the long dessert table. “Your parents only moved here ten years ago, and they’re talking to everyone. Look at my dad, alone over there. And he was <i>born</i> here.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan’s dad was, as usual, standing a little bit apart from everyone else.</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe said, “He’s just shy, maybe.” He shoved a whole cookie into his mouth.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Half an hour later, Evan walked around picking up stray napkins and feeling antsy to leave. He was uncomfortably full of dessert, but worse, his dad had promised (promised!) to tell him … <i>something</i>, on the way home.</p>
<p class="TX">And then, when everyone had started gathering up their blankets and packing up their half-eaten pies, his dad had totally backed out.</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m so sorry, Evan.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Dad! You <i>promised</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX">Looking upset, his father was already moving toward the parking lot. “I just—I can’t right now. But we’ll talk soon. I promise.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 137. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_137" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Evan stared after him. What just happened? A minute ago, he’d looked like he was actually having fun, for once, laughing with Mr. O’Neal. And then, when it was finally time to walk home together, he ran away.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan was done with waiting. It was time to put his detective cap on again. But he didn’t draw his thumb down his forehead. Too many people around.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan kicked a napkin. Then, feeling bad, he bent down and picked it up. His mom came up behind him and put an arm around his shoulders. “Your dad just needs a little more time. Walk me home? I’ll buy you a piece of pie.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Not funny. And I can’t go home yet. I have something to do.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Okay. But be home for dinner.” His mom raised the basket in her hand. “We’re having pie!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>