<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Seventeen. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch17" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch17">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 83. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_83" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch17"><b>Chapter Seventeen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch17"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">The second major expansion of Martinville’s little free library took the form of an old red wagon pulled by two third graders: Jessica and Winnie D. (Not to be confused with Winnie R., Mortimer remembered, who was in the fifth grade.)</p>
<p class="TX">Jessica and Winnie D. had divided their wagon of books into three parts and labeled them with beautiful handmade signs: There were <span class="CAPS">H</span><small>ORSE</small> <span class="CAPS">S</span><small>TORIES</small>, <span class="CAPS">D</span><small>OG</small> <span class="CAPS">S</span><small>TORIES</small>, and <span class="CAPS">O</span><small>THER</small> <span class="CAPS">A</span><small>NIMAL</small> <span class="CAPS">S</span><small>TORIES</small>.</p>
<p class="TX"><span class="CAPS">N</span>o <span class="CAPS">C</span><small>AT</small> <span class="CAPS">S</span><small>TORIES</small>. Mortimer tried to glare at them, but they were scratching him behind the ears at the time, and he did not manage it.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 84. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_84" role="doc-pagebreak"/>As they left, Winnie called back to him. “I’m coming back later, cat! With my dad!”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">When the sun began to get low in the sky, Mortimer stretched out on the grass and listened to the frogs, who had started their night singing early. Several of the animal books had already been taken (two dog, one horse), and a few books had been added to the egg crate. Even with a few other afternoon departures, there wasn’t much room behind the cheese cupboard doors. But all was well with the library.</p>
<p class="TX">He watched the door of his house, wondering when his dinner would emerge.</p>
<p class="TX">The porch door opened. Looking left and right, left and right, Al came quickly across the green with Mortimer’s supper dish. Mortimer stood up and got ready for her hug.</p>
<p class="TX">But Al didn’t hug him. She seemed entranced by the library.</p>
<p class="TX">“Look at this,” she whispered, “the library is growing!” She examined the red wagon, her fingers caressing one book at a time while she cooed over the signs the girls had made.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer began to wonder if Al was going to set down his food dish anytime soon.</p>
<p class="TX">“Sorry!” she said, catching his expression. “I guess I got excited.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 85. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_85" role="doc-pagebreak"/>First looking around to make sure they were alone, Al sat with him while he ate. “Ms. Scoggin is hovering more than usual,” she told him. “Last night, she had to keep hold of her chair with one hand in order to stay at the table! And Mr. Brock keeps dropping his books. I wonder if I should be worried. Are there ghost <i>doctors</i>, do you suppose? How would I even call one?”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer had never thought about it. Cats could see ghosts, of course, but he had never seen a ghost doctor. Then his thoughts were interrupted by voices from the other side of the green. Not mouse voices. Human ones.</p>
<p class="TX">Al’s eyes got big. She hugged Mortimer quickly before picking up his empty dish. It was a tight hug on a full stomach, but Mortimer was happy to have it. Then he watched Al race back to their house, half-bent into a funny crouch.</p>
<p class="TX">The human voices approached from the other direction. Winnie D. was back, Mortimer realized, with her dad.</p>
<p class="TX">“Did you see <i>that</i>?” Winnie said, looking toward the History House, where Al had just scurried up the steps.</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes, I did,” her dad answered quietly.</p>
<p class="TX">“Have you ever talked to her, Dad? Jessica tried once, on a dare. But the lady ran away.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Don’t play games with that lady,” Winnie’s dad said. <span aria-label=" Page 86. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_86" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“If she wanted to talk to us, she would. I think she wants to be left to herself.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Ooh, the cat’s still there!” Winnie said, catching sight of Mortimer. “I told you he lives here.”</p>
<p class="TX">Winnie’s dad carried a big beach umbrella in one hand and a shovel in the other. He carefully dug a hole, inserted the umbrella stick, and then Winnie refilled the hole, patting the dirt down hard so the stick wouldn’t wobble. When they opened the umbrella, it covered both Mr. Gregorian’s egg crate and the red wagon. Then Winnie laid a towel, folded twice, on the ground under the umbrella.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s supposed to be a bed, if you want it,” she told Mortimer.</p>
<p class="TX">After they left, he settled on the towel, which was nice and thick. From here, he could see all his books. He liked his bed very much. He doubted he would be able to see the stars through the umbrella, but he, along with the books, would stay dry if it rained.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer liked Winnie D. It was fine that she liked dogs and horses better than cats.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer liked his library. He was taking good care of it.</p>
<p class="TX">And so were the people of Martinville.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">He wondered if Finn had ever found any food.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>