<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Al’s Epilogue</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="epi" epub:type="epilogue" role="doc-epilogue">
<header>
<h1 class="BMH" id="epi"><span aria-label=" Page 213. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_213" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_al" id="al"><b>AL’S EPILOGUE</b></a></h1>
</header>
<p class="CD"><b>One year later</b></p>
<p class="CO1">The new Martinville Library stood on the footprint of the old one, but that was all that the two buildings had in common.</p>
<p class="TX">The new library had glass walls, five floors of books, nine cozy reading nooks, an automatic returned-books sorting machine, an elevator, a movie theater that doubled as a performance stage, three computer and virtual-reality rooms, a café, a book club meeting area, and an entire room dedicated to graphic novels and comic books.</p>
<p class="TX">From her glass-walled office on the third floor, the librarian could see most of what was happening in her library at any given moment. Not that she had many free <span aria-label=" Page 214. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_214" role="doc-pagebreak"/>moments. People—staff, patrons, friends—were always knocking on her office door, despite the large sign she had taped up: <span class="CAPS">D</span><small>ON’T BOTHER KNOCKING—JUST COME IN!</small></p>
<p class="TX">Her intern, however, usually just stuck his head in. “Hi. You ready?”</p>
<p class="TX">Al looked up from her computer, where she had been making notes for the summer reading festival. “Rafe!” she said. “Oh my gosh—is school over already?” She put down the tuna and dill pickle sandwich she’d been eating. (Edward, who had admitted that he’d left those sandwiches on her porch all those years, still insisted on making one for her every Wednesday.)</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe grinned at her. Al was sort of famous for losing track of time. “It’s almost four o’clock,” he said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh!” She began to close all the documents on her screen, saving each one first. It had taken her a while to get the hang of “computer things,” but dear Edward’s wife, Martina, had been extremely patient with her. They’d become good friends in the past year. (Martina, who was in charge of all the tech rooms in the library, especially enjoyed Al’s odd habit of handing her a cup of tea and a slice of cheese most afternoons around four o’clock.)</p>
<p class="TX">Al stood up, adjusted her librarian pin, and picked up the neat stack of books that had been sitting on her desk <span aria-label=" Page 215. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_215" role="doc-pagebreak"/>beside a small carved wood mouse. She touched the mouse for luck, or maybe just out of affection, and looked expectantly at her intern.</p>
<p class="TX">“I’ve got everything set up,” Rafe said. “Extra floor cushions, like you said.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Thank you, Rafe.” Al glanced out the window to the green, where she saw a number of kids drifting from the elementary school toward the library, some of them talking and laughing, and others just thinking their private thoughts.</p>
<p class="TX">“I’m ready,” she said.</p>
<p class="TX">It was time for Wednesday Book Club.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>