<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Evan’s Epilogue</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="epi" epub:type="epilogue" role="doc-epilogue">
<header>
<h1 class="CT" id="epi"><span aria-label=" Page 209. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_209" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_eva" id="eva"><b>EVAN’S EPILOGUE</b></a></h1>
</header>
<p class="CD"><b>On the first day of middle school</b></p>
<p class="CO1">It turned out that Evan’s house was the very first stop for the school bus, so he ended up saving a seat for Demetri, instead of the other way around. When Rafe got on, carrying a large paper bag, they squeezed in to make room for him.</p>
<p class="TX">“Tomato?” Rafe pointed at the bag in his lap.</p>
<p class="TX">Demetri laughed. “Maybe later.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Sure thing.” Rafe patted his bag. “Anytime. I thought I’d hand these out to my teachers today. You know, like apples?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Except—tomatoes,” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 210. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_210" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Exactly.” Over the summer, Rafe had proven to be a natural gardener, although he said he owed his success to the book he’d found at the little free library.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan looked at his watch. There would be no getting to school early this year. He itched to open his journal. He’d been writing a lot lately.</p>
<p class="TX">When the bus turned the corner at the town green, the library construction came into full view. So far, it was just a massive hole.</p>
<p class="TX">Their bus slowed to a stop at the red light. Evan had been on several site visits with his dad. Next to the massive hole, there was the now-familiar sign with a drawing of what the library was going to look like when it was finished.</p>
<p class="TX">It was going to look very impressive.</p>
<p class="TX">Demetri pointed at a small group of people standing together in hard hats, near the sign. “Isn’t that your dad, Evan?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah,” Evan said. “He’s been spending a lot of time there. Planning.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Is it true they’re going to call it the H. G. Higgins Library?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No way,” Evan said. “That’s just a rumor. My dad would never want it named after him.” But Evan wasn’t <span aria-label=" Page 211. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_211" role="doc-pagebreak"/>looking at the construction site anymore. He was looking at the History House.</p>
<p class="TX">Demetri shrugged. “Why not? He’s paying for it, isn’t he? I read <i>Assignment Accepted</i> over the summer, as soon as I found out about him being H. G. Higgins. And it was so good! Where did your dad learn to write? Where does he get the ideas from?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Right here, I guess,” Evan said. “He’s always lived here.” The History House door opened, and Al stepped out, carrying a big tote bag over her shoulder. Evan could see a few books sticking out of it.</p>
<p class="TX">Demetri said. “I always thought writers were from someplace special, you know?”</p>
<p class="TX">Al stepped down from her porch and crossed in front of them on her way to the town green, waving cheerily at the bus driver. At the little free library, she stopped, took the bag from her shoulder, and began to shelve her books. The library had a bench now, with a jar of dog treats stowed beneath it. The beautiful orange cat hadn’t returned, but someone had painted a pretty good portrait of him on the side of the library. As Evan watched, Al blew the cat a kiss before setting off again.</p>
<p class="TX">The light changed, and the bus lurched forward.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 212. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_212" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Maybe <i>this</i> is someplace special,” Evan said. “Maybe everywhere is special to the people who live there.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah,” Rafe said, biting into a tomato. “Maybe.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The fire warden had agreed to reopen the investigation of the library fire, because he had never considered the possible role of mice. It turned out that it wasn’t all that unusual for a mouse to start a fire. Sometimes they nibbled wires. Rarely (but sometimes), they ran with matches in their mouths. Matches that dragged on things like walls, or books, and burst into flame. After a month of review, the warden officially announced that the library fire had been started by accident: “the result of unanticipated animal behavior or interference.”</p>
<p class="TX">Justice had been done in the end.</p>
<p class="TX">And this, in fact, is the end.</p>
<p class="TX">Almost.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>