<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Ten. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch10" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch10">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 36. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_36" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch10"><b>Chapter Ten</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch10"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Well, yes. Sadly. People died.</p>
<p class="TX">This might be a good time to introduce myself.</p>
<p class="TX">I was the assistant librarian at the Martinville Library on the night it burned to the ground.</p>
<p class="TX">You can call me Al.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">I live in Martinville’s History House, not far from where the old library once stood. I moved in after the fire with my supervisor, Ms. Scoggin, and her patron, Mr. Brock. No one minds about the three of us living there—we hardly take up any room, being ghosts (plus cat).</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin always says it was a very good thing we came, because we know how to take care of the house. I keep the <span aria-label=" Page 37. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_37" role="doc-pagebreak"/>dishes clean and neatly arranged in their wooden rack above the sink. I wash the windows and beat the rugs in the garden before dawn, when no one will catch sight of me (my invisibility skills are not impressive). I manage the potatoes and the apples in the cellar, making sure they have plenty of cool air so that they do not rot. And I cook: applesauce, potato pancakes, apple muffins, baked potatoes, apple dumplings, mashed potatoes, and, when I lack inspiration, more applesauce. (Ghosts don’t eat very much, but they do eat.)</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. Brock does his part. He has been, for many years, our sweeper. Though mostly cloudlike, he’s taught himself to grip our broom. The dear cat takes care of the mice. And Ms. Scoggin takes care of <i>us</i>, she says. By which she means: She encourages Mr. Brock’s reading (as his librarian), she snuggles with the dear cat (because they both like that), and as my supervisor, she walks behind me, Reminding and Criticizing.</p>
<p class="TX">In the evenings, after I have cooked and washed up, we all relax together knowing that everything is in its right place.</p>
<p class="TX">Except, as Ms. Scoggin likes to say, for me.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Our house was once the home of the Martins, our town founders, and everything in it is kept <i>just as it was</i> when the <span aria-label=" Page 38. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_38" role="doc-pagebreak"/>family lived here a hundred and fifty years ago. We have no electricity, only candles and a fireplace. Our one toilet has a pull chain. The children always laugh at that. (There are public tours every Sunday and Tuesday, at noon.)</p>
<p class="TX">It really is a perfect house for ghosts.</p>
<p class="TX">Sometimes we hear children playing on the porch (from which there is a short path leading to the grassy town green). This morning, I peeked through the curtains and saw two small heads pressed together on the swing, emitting whispers and giggles. “I believe it’s hide-and-seek again!” I told the others.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin and Mr. Brock pay absolutely no attention to the children or the tour groups. Last week, a class of third graders marched right through the parlor while the two of them just went on chatting, reading, and drinking their cups of tea, and there wasn’t the slightest problem.</p>
<p class="TX">I, however, have always showed a distinct lack of talent for invisibility, which is why I always hide myself away on tour days during the hour between noon and one. (Most recently, I have been folding myself into the broom closet.) I do not wish to scare anyone, least of all a child. Over the years, I have found many excellent hiding spots in our house.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 39. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_39" role="doc-pagebreak"/>If <i>I</i> were ever invited to play hide-and-seek, I would certainly be the winner.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Of course, we didn’t exactly plan to be housemates, Ms. Scoggin and myself. And I certainly <i>never</i> imagined I would find myself sharing a home with Mr. Brock, who paces around his bedroom turning the pages of his books. Every so often, he stops, throws open his door, and makes an announcement.</p>
<p class="TX">“Ms. Scoggin! This dog is heroic! This dog, Ms. Scoggin, what courage she has!”</p>
<p class="TX">Or, “Ms. Scoggin! They are almost to the mountain! At last! I can hardly wait to know what they will find there! What courage!”</p>
<p class="TX">Or, more soberly, “Ms. Scoggin, I do believe these three brothers are becoming the most extraordinary young men! What courage!”</p>
<p class="TX">Courage is Mr. Brock’s favorite thing to discover in a book.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">He addresses his announcements to Ms. Scoggin, never to me. He is always hoping, I believe, that I am not at home. I know how this sounds—unkind!—but Mr. Brock is only encouraging me to go out more.</p>
<p class="TX">My supervisor, Ms. Scoggin, also thinks I am too much <span aria-label=" Page 40. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_40" role="doc-pagebreak"/>at home. There are so many important things to <i>do</i> in the world, she says.</p>
<p class="TX">But what, I ask her, can one small ghost like me do about the world?</p>
<p class="TX">And if I were <i>not</i> at home, who did Mr. Brock think would bring his plates of 4:00 <small>P.M.</small> cheese? Certainly not Ms. Scoggin. She has not taken herself into the kitchen for years. She prefers to supervise me from the parlor, where she claims the soft chair by the fireplace. Until his recent departure, the dear cat was usually near her (when he was not stationed at his window or patrolling the cellar for mice). Often, they shared her chair, which I brushed regularly. (Without electricity, a vacuum cleaner was useless). The dear cat is a comfort—to Ms. Scoggin, in particular. I do wish he would come home.</p>
<p class="TX">I am not a comfort. Ms. Scoggin often says that I am “a test,” which I think we can agree is the <i>opposite</i> of a comfort.</p>
<p class="TX">Over the years, I have asked her many times why I must be a test. I never loved tests and do not wish to be one. Ms. Scoggin just rolls her eyes, exactly as she did in the old days, when I worked for her at the library. (“Take your place!” she used to shout at me as she prepared to open the beautiful blue library doors at 8:30 sharp in the mornings. And I’d scuttle behind the circulation desk. “Stand up <span aria-label=" Page 41. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_41" role="doc-pagebreak"/>straight!” she’d say. “Librarians do not slouch if they can help it!” And I would straighten my back.)</p>
<p class="TX">At first, her criticisms hurt my feelings, but then I understood that they were only part of Ms. Scoggin’s gruffness. Perhaps this was what mothers were like, I imagined. I had come directly from the orphanage, so I was no expert about parental things.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Every morning, when I bring the day’s first cup of tea to her bed and help her pin on her “Librarian” badge, Ms. Scoggin greets me the same way she used to in our library days: “Take your place, my dear!”</p>
<p class="TX">But if I ask her what better place there could be than this excellent house for three fine ghosts (and their cat), she just glares at me.</p>
<p class="TX">She calls me “my dear,” because, deep down, she is fond of me, and also because ghosts have trouble remembering names. But in our library days, she always called me by my name, usually while pointing accusingly at a cart of books that needed to be reshelved, or perhaps waving a paper over her head while complaining that my handwriting was illegible.</p>
<p class="TX">Or to tell me that she had seen another mouse.</p>
<p class="TX">Or to let me know that the printer was out of paper.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 42. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_42" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Or that the balcony light bulbs appeared to be very dusty.</p>
<p class="TX">You get the idea.</p>
<p class="TX">In our cozy house, Ms. Scoggin is less concerned about dust. But when I venture down the path to run my Monday errands, she often calls after me from behind the front door. “Head high, my dear! Eyes up! Take your place in the world!”</p>
<p class="TX">I do try to lift up my eyes a little. But if I hear Mr. Brock’s echoing “What courage!” I know that it has nothing to do with me.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>