<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Five. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch25" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch25">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 124. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_124" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch25"><b>Chapter Twenty-Five</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch25"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Mortimer’s fourth day as guardian of the library was momentous.</p>
<p class="TX">Early in the morning, the boy with the question-mark face appeared with his very loud friend. As things turned out, Mortimer’s help was needed. The boy with the question-mark face got himself quickly turned around in the high bushes near Mortimer’s beloved lost library, and then had trouble seeing the only thing there of any particular interest. Mortimer stood upon it until the boy finally noticed.</p>
<p class="TX">“Thanks!” the boy had said.</p>
<p class="TX">“You are welcome,” Mortimer said. In truth, he was feeling quite overwhelmed by memories of Petunia. There was no library anymore, but Mortimer had been standing <span aria-label=" Page 125. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_125" role="doc-pagebreak"/>exactly where the old blue doors had once been. And those blue doors would always remind him of his fierce sister, Petunia, because of the time she got stuck on top of them.</p>
<p class="TX">He could almost hear her voice. “Chase me, Mortimer. Chase me!”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>All your fault</i>, his heart said.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">And then, Mrs. Anne Baker, whom Mortimer knew well, brought her daughter to the little free library. A small suitcase swung from Mrs. Baker’s hand. Her daughter held her other hand, although she could mostly walk by herself now.</p>
<p class="TX">“Hello, friend,” Mrs. Baker said to Mortimer. “I heard you were the guardian of our new library. I brought you something.” She held out a kitty treat. She often brought him a few when she led tours at the History House.</p>
<p class="TX">“Thank you,” Mortimer said.</p>
<p class="TX">“You’re welcome,” she said. Mrs. Baker always seemed to know what Mortimer was saying. He liked that.</p>
<p class="TX">“Book!” Mrs. Baker’s daughter said. She dropped her mother’s hand and pointed with both hands—one aimed at the red wagon full of books, the other one at Mr. Gregorian’s egg crate.</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes, sweetie. Books!”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 126. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_126" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Book!” the girl repeated, now pointing at Mortimer.</p>
<p class="TX">Mrs. Baker laughed. “That’s a cat. Me-ow.”</p>
<p class="TX">From the small suitcase, which she had opened on the grass, Mrs. Baker removed a folded blanket. She shook it out and they settled on it: Mrs. Baker, her daughter, and Mortimer. That’s when Mortimer saw what else was in the suitcase: more books.</p>
<p class="TX">Everything was nicely arranged, with the small book spines all facing up. And inside the top of the suitcase, the word “POETRY” had been painted in big letters and surrounded by several small paint handprints.</p>
<p class="TX">“Paint!” the little girl said, pointing. “Paint more, Mommy!”</p>
<p class="TX">“Our paints are at home, honey. Let’s read now. Read book?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Book,” the girl confirmed. “Me-ow.”</p>
<p class="TX">Mrs. Baker removed one of the books from the case and opened it.</p>
<p class="TX">“Here’s a poem I love,” she said. “This poem is called ‘April Rain Song,’ by Mr. Langston Hughes. He was a teenager when he wrote it.” She cleared her throat, and began:</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="VF"><i>Let the rain kiss you.</i></p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 127. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_127" role="doc-pagebreak"/><i>Rain kiss!</i> Mortimer thought. That reminded him of “wind tickle.”</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="V1"><i>Let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops.</i></p>
<p class="TX"><i>Silver liquid</i>, his heart said. <i>Yes! Exactly</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer closed his eyes so he could listen better.</p>
<p class="TX">When the poem was over, he opened them. Something inside him had changed.</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX"><i>Listening to poetry</i>, Mortimer’s heart said, <i>feels like looking in a mirror</i>.</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="VM1">Maybe he <i>was</i> good with words, in his own way.</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="TX">He wished he could tell Petunia.</p>
<p class="TX">“Whoops,” Mrs. Baker said.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer looked up and saw clouds, heavy and low. He felt a few drops of rain.</p>
<p class="TX">Mrs. Baker closed the book and carefully pushed the suitcase along the grass until it was tucked safely under the umbrella. They all scooched until they were underneath, too. Together, they watched the rain fall. <i>Silver liquid drops</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">But Mortimer felt unaccountably tired. He knew he was old, but he had hardly ever <i>felt</i> old. Now he did.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 128. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_128" role="doc-pagebreak"/><i>If Petunia is anywhere</i>, he told himself, <i>she must be old, too</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">Which seemed impossible.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Mrs. Baker left the suitcase, which became the library’s fourth room.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>