<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Fourteen. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch14" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch14">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 63. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_63" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch14"><b>Chapter Fourteen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch14"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">A few people had brought a book, or two, and squeezed them into his little library on its first day. One book had been left with a sticky note attached: <i>My 100% FAVORITE book of fifth grade!!!</i> That book had been taken by a fourth grader within minutes.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer felt content. More and more so, in fact.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The first <i>crate</i> of books arrived on the second day, Tuesday, right after lunch. (Al was still bringing Mortimer’s meals to him. She also sneaked in a few tight hugs, but he didn’t mind.)</p>
<p class="TX">The crate was carried by Mr. Gregorian, who managed the grocery store. First, he tried to cram his books into <span aria-label=" Page 64. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_64" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Mortimer’s little library, but when he saw that they would not all fit, Mr. Gregorian made a decision. He set his crate on the ground under the library.</p>
<p class="TX">Exactly in the spot where Mortimer had made his bed. He glared up at Mr. Gregorian.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. Gregorian said, “I can tell that you approve, Buffy. Good girl!”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>People</i>, Mortimer thought.</p>
<p class="TX">“Nothing wrong with adding a room to your library, am I right?”</p>
<p class="TX">With this, Mortimer had to agree.</p>
<p class="TX">Mr. Gregorian, after considering, carefully tilted the crate onto one side. “This’ll help keep the rain out,” he explained.</p>
<p class="TX">It was an egg crate, Mortimer realized. From his History House window, he had enjoyed watching the farmers bring their deliveries. Eggs came to Mr. Gregorian’s store twice a week.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer hopped up on top of the crate. It was acceptable.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Late that evening, he heard mouse voices again.</p>
<p class="TX">“I <i>definitely</i> smell cheese. I’m telling you, it’s here <i>somewhere</i>.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 65. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_65" role="doc-pagebreak"/>There were only two of them this time, zigzagging across the grass in the moonlight. Silent, Mortimer watched them come closer and closer.</p>
<p class="TX">“You can’t smell it? Now it’s even stronger!”</p>
<p class="TX">He could see them pretty clearly now—they were the same size and color, but they weren’t exactly a matched set. One of them had a short tail.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, <i>that</i> was it—your <i>tail!</i>” Mortimer erupted.</p>
<p class="TX">And the mice froze right in front of him.</p>
<p class="TX">Belatedly, Mortimer closed his mouth. Oops. Now they would probably run away or start calling him names. He waited to see which it would be.</p>
<p class="TX">But they did neither. Some instinct had paralyzed them. Or almost, because he could see both of them quivering. The mice had sounded so brave the night before. Maybe they were just acting brave?</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer took a slow backward step to see if that would release them. “I’m not—” he started, “I mean, I won’t <i>do</i> anything to you.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Finn, it’s just the Grouch!” one of them said. His tiny body had relaxed visibly, but Finn was still stiff as a board.</p>
<p class="TX">“Finn,” the mouse said. “Shake it off. We’re okay! The Grouch doesn’t bite.”</p>
<p class="TX">Finn was trying to shake it off. Mortimer could tell.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 66. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_66" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Still looking mostly frozen, Finn said, “Ha. Close one!” and smiled weakly.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer took another step back and spoke quietly. “It was your <i>tail</i> that you dropped, wasn’t it? And the hawk was left holding it—your tail? You escaped?”</p>
<p class="TX">Finn nodded.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer glanced at his own tail. <i>Ouch</i>, he thought.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s different for us mice,” Finn said quietly. “We’re <i>built</i> to do it. It’s like … an escape trick.”</p>
<p class="TX">The other mouse nodded and glanced at where the tip of Finn’s tail used to be. “Right in the <i>nick</i> of time,” the mouse said. “It was very well done.”</p>
<p class="TX">“And your tail will grow back?” Mortimer asked.</p>
<p class="TX">Again, Finn nodded. “That’s what my mom says.”</p>
<p class="TX">Interesting.</p>
<p class="TX">“Do either of you happen to know,” Mortimer asked, because these mice seemed to know things, “why the frogs sing at night?”</p>
<p class="TX">Both mice shrugged.</p>
<p class="TX">“Then I guess you wouldn’t know how they all know to <i>stop</i> singing, at the same time?”</p>
<p class="TX">The mice looked at each other. “Never thought about it,” Finn mumbled.</p>
<p class="TX">“Is there cheese in that cupboard up there, by any <span aria-label=" Page 67. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_67" role="doc-pagebreak"/>chance?” Finn’s friend was pointing up at the library. “It sure <i>smells</i> like cheese.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>The cheese cupboard doors</i>, Mortimer realized, <i>still smell like cheese</i>. “I’m sorry,” he said stiffly. “This is a library. No cheese around here.”</p>
<p class="TX">The mouse shrugged. “Okay. We have to find food soon, so we should probably get going.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Hungry,” Finn added softly.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer watched them back slowly away, turn around, and run.</p>
<p class="TX">He almost wished he had told them where to find the potato bin.</p>
<p class="TX">But that would upset Ms. Scoggin.</p>
<p class="TX">It was confusing.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>