<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Forty. Everyone</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch40" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch40">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 200. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_200" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch40"><b>Chapter Forty</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch40"><b>EVERYONE</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">“Are you … seeing this?” Evan’s father asked.</p>
<p class="TX">“I <i>think</i> so,” the cheese lady said, rubbing her temple slowly, as if she might have a headache.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan could only stare. The mice were doing a dance or something.</p>
<p class="TX">It was impossible. But also, it was happening.</p>
<p class="TX">They were marching around in a little circle now, holding <i>matchsticks</i> in their mouths.</p>
<p class="TX">And the cat appeared to be—supervising?</p>
<p class="TX">If anyone deserved a secret mouse dance, Evan thought, it was his father.</p>
<p class="TX">“Unless I hit my head a little harder than I thought I <span aria-label=" Page 201. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_201" role="doc-pagebreak"/>did,” the cheese lady said. She was still wearing the pin that said “AL.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Al saved me</i>, his father had said. It was why Evan had come back here.</p>
<p class="TX">Al.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>AL.</i></p>
<p class="TX">If this was the “Al” his dad talked about, maybe she would know what really happened on the night of the fire. Evan had come to ask her.</p>
<p class="TX">But he was obviously going to have to wait.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1"><i>Am I hallucinating?</i> Al wondered.</p>
<p class="TX">Edward (the dear boy! But no longer a boy, of course) had helped her up from the floor, and now the mice appeared to be putting on some kind of <i>play</i>. She didn’t know which thing was more impossible.</p>
<p class="TX">It <i>felt</i> like a play, anyway. The dear cat had jumped to the mantel, knocked over the heavy matchstick cup with one of his giant paws, and was now standing tall on the hearthstone.</p>
<p class="TX">The mice dived for the matchsticks as soon as they hit the ground, and then stood between the dear cat’s large front feet.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 202. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_202" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Nine mice, in a neat line. Each of them holding a matchstick firmly in its mouth.</p>
<p class="TX">And then, at an invisible sign (it was actually just another whistle from Fred, but the humans couldn’t hear it), the mice began to parade in a circle around the dear cat.</p>
<p class="TX">Slowly, the cat raised a six-toed paw above his head—it seemed for a moment that he was about to strike. Instead, he gave the air above the mice a vague swipe. The dear cat was <i>acting</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">At this, the mice <i>acted</i> afraid—they zigzagged around in front of the fireplace, dipping their heads so that their matches sparked against the hearthstone.</p>
<p class="TX">Matches.</p>
<p class="TX">Al heard a sharp inhale, and realized she had made the noise herself.</p>
<p class="TX">Edward stood like a stone beside her.</p>
<p class="TX">Then the mice stopped their zigzagging and match-sparking, and lined up neatly again in front of Mortimer. They dropped their matches—all but the smallest mouse, who raced over to where Mr. Brock’s book was still facedown on the floor and stood on top of it, balancing on her two hind legs with her match in her mouth.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>What a dear mouse</i>, Al thought. (But Ms. Scoggin <span aria-label=" Page 203. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_203" role="doc-pagebreak"/>would be <i>horrified</i>—a book spread out on its face! With a <i>mouse</i> standing on top of it!)</p>
<p class="TX">Of course, Ms. Scoggin was gone. That knowledge was still sinking in. The more Al absorbed it, the more she was sure she would cry.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Concentrate</i>, she told herself.</p>
<p class="TX">The dear cat had begun to meow. A lot.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">In fact, Mortimer was speaking. Here is what he said:</p>
<p class="TX">My sister Petunia and I chased a poor mouse that night in the library.</p>
<p class="TX">We didn’t know it had a matchstick in its mouth.</p>
<p class="TX">We were just kittens.</p>
<p class="TX">Then everything was on fire, and we ran in different directions.</p>
<p class="TX">The fire was my fault.</p>
<p class="TX">And also an accident.</p>
<p class="TX">I am deeply sorry about it.</p>
<p class="TX">I never saw Petunia again.</p>
<p class="TX">The mice say she may be a monster in Grantville who likes movies, and I am going to find out for myself.</p>
<p class="TX">One more thing.</p>
<p class="TX">I told the mice they could stay here for a while.</p>
<p class="TX">They enjoy apples and cheese.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 204. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_204" role="doc-pagebreak"/>And probably potatoes.</p>
<p class="TX">Goodbye. And thanks for all the hugs.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Mortimer had wanted to write a beautiful goodbye poem to go with his speech. But there had been no time.</p>
<p class="TX">He knew that humans couldn’t understand him. But he needed to say the words out loud anyway: “It was an accident. I’m sorry.”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>So sorry</i>, his heart said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Nice speech!” Flavia shouted at him. “Now point me at the apples!”</p>
<p class="TX">“<i>Please</i>,” Fred reminded her.</p>
<p class="TX">“Apples, please!” said Flavia.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">It is true that Al, Edward, and Evan didn’t understand a word Mortimer said. But they understood the performance.</p>
<p class="TX">Not every story needs words.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The humans turned to each other. “Mice!” Al said.</p>
<p class="TX">Edward nodded. He didn’t look like a stone anymore. “Mice,” he said.</p>
<p class="TX">And for the first time in many years, they were able to look at each other.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 205. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_205" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“I never even thanked you,” Al said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Thanked <i>me</i>?” Edward said. “What for?”</p>
<p class="TX">“For saving my life on the night of the fire—I don’t know how you did it. I found you curled up on the floor. You looked unconscious, to be honest. But then somehow you got me out.”</p>
<p class="TX">Edward shook his head. “I didn’t save <i>your</i> life, you saved <i>mine!</i> All I remember is collapsing on the floor and then waking up outside in the parking lot with you next to me. <i>You</i> must have dragged <i>me</i> out.”</p>
<p class="TX">At that moment, something fell from the ceiling and hit the ground between their feet.</p>
<p class="TX">Al bent down to pick it up. It was a small plastic pin that read “Librarian.”</p>
<p class="TX">She looked at Edward. She looked at the ceiling.</p>
<p class="TX">And then she cried a little.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">By this time, the mice had already scattered to the basement and discovered the potato bin.</p>
<p class="TX">When Mortimer walked out the door, no one even noticed.</p>
<p class="TX">Except for Flavia.</p>
<p class="TX">“Bye, Mortimer!” she yelled from behind mouse door <span aria-label=" Page 206. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_206" role="doc-pagebreak"/>number four. “Goodbye and good luck! I mostly don’t think you’re a grouch anymore!”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">On the road home, Evan said, “Dad, did those mice and that cat really just show us how the fire started?”</p>
<p class="TX">His father nodded. “I think they did. I’m still processing it.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan shined the flashlight so they wouldn’t trip. “We have to tell the fire warden. He can reopen the case. Right?”</p>
<p class="TX">Slowly, his dad nodded again. “I think we can ask him to look into it. But we probably shouldn’t, um, tell him about the cat-and-mouse play. That was just for us, I think. And for Al.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan agreed. He would tell Rafe, though. And Mom, of course.</p>
<p class="TX">They had reached their house. Evan had just one more question.</p>
<p class="TX">“Dad? Are we the kind of rich that could build a new library?”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>