<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirteen. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch13" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch13">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 56. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_56" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch13"><b>Chapter Thirteen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch13"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Tuesday, and the dear cat has not yet come home.</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin says if I stop bringing him his dish, he’ll be back soon enough, but I can’t bear to disappoint him.</p>
<p class="TX">Today’s Tuesday Tour was a lovely fourth-grade class. From my broom closet, I could hear them shuffling from room to room and giggling at our toilet. Mrs. Baker, our tour guide, did an excellent job, as usual. But, as you can imagine, I have heard the “Martinville History House Tour Speech” many, many times, and so I sometimes tune it out. Today, chin resting comfortably on knees, I closed my eyes and visited one of my happiest memories from my assistant librarian days: book club.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1"><span aria-label=" Page 57. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_57" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Before I was a ghost, my favorite thing was Wednesday Book Club.</p>
<p class="TX">On book club days, I was happy at work, even if Ms. Scoggin had given me five Reminders and seven Criticisms before lunchtime. At three o’clock, I pretended to dust the windowsills and watched my book club members arrive, in ones and twos. Through the big front windows, I saw them get distracted by the bakery window or the stationery store with its comic book rack just inside the front door. (I had several times asked Ms. Scoggin if we might have a comics section in our library, but this led only to more Reminders and Criticisms.)</p>
<p class="TX">Sadly, I can’t remember their names anymore. There were seven or eight “regulars” every Wednesday. Plus the boy.</p>
<p class="TX">The boy always came to the library on Book Club Wednesdays, and on many other days as well. He walked the same path from the school to our library, but he wasn’t like the others. I could see that he was mostly distracted by his own thoughts, and as I watched, I wondered what they were.</p>
<p class="TX">At first, he barely looked at me, even when he came to the checkout desk with his pile of books. Once, he showed up with a damaged return—and he had tried to repair the <span aria-label=" Page 58. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_58" role="doc-pagebreak"/>book himself, with tape. He walked in and brought the book straight to Ms. Scoggin, and when she held it up, I nearly leaped over my desk to shield the boy from the Criticisms that were about to rain down on him. His face was pointed at the floor, but I could see that his ears were already bright red. And she had not yet begun.</p>
<p class="TX">But she said nothing. She merely gathered up the broken book with the others and said, “All on time, thank you,” before turning away. Released, the boy flashed her a look of—disbelief? gratitude?—and then zipped away into the cool of the library stacks. I stood in near shock—Ms. Scoggin, I sometimes forgot, was a very nice person! Despite her Reminders. And her Criticisms. I thought, again, of mothers. I had a sudden urge to dust the light bulbs on the balcony, just to make her happy.</p>
<p class="TX">At closing time, I found her hunched over the work table in the basement, carefully taping up the book’s spine. “Anyone could see that the child did not damage this book,” she said. “It was probably some brute bully. Why are you standing there with your mouth open? Don’t you have things to do?”</p>
<p class="TX">I gathered myself and said, “I have just finished dusting the balcony, Ms. Scoggin.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 59. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_59" role="doc-pagebreak"/>She nodded. “I hope you didn’t forget the light bulbs.”</p>
<p class="TX">I assured her that I had not.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">But I have gone off on a tangent about Ms. Scoggin! I was telling about Book Club Wednesdays. The club members were Great Readers, and we had a wonderful time listening to one another talk about the books we were reading, what the stories were and what we thought might happen next, and how all of it made us feel. These young readers felt things about books, which is why I call them Great Readers. Being a Great Reader has nothing to with reading great sophisticated books, or reading great <i>long</i> books, or even with reading a great <i>many</i> books.</p>
<p class="TX">Being a Great Reader means feeling something about books.</p>
<p class="TX">I had created a special book club area, with a small rug around which I pulled up several book carts on Wednesday afternoons, to make protective walls. It was our club room, and the door was always open. Actually, there was no door, only a space between two of the carts.</p>
<p class="TX">But the point is that anyone could join our club—the members even posted invitations, on the bulletin board near the big blue doors, and at the school, in the town hall <span aria-label=" Page 60. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_60" role="doc-pagebreak"/>waiting room, and even in the grocery store parking lot. “All Welcome,” they said at the top.</p>
<p class="TX">Every Wednesday, I hoped the boy would join us on the rug, and every Wednesday he did not. Instead, he sat at one of the library’s two long tables, always in the chair <i>closest</i> to the rug, but with his back to us. And he was usually in his place well before our meeting began, so that it seemed (almost) to be a coincidence he was there. Which I knew it was not.</p>
<p class="TX">You have probably heard that you are supposed to be quiet in a library, but this was not true on Book Club Wednesdays. We did not even try to keep our voices down, but Ms. Scoggin never said a word. If something funny was said (we liked to joke), I would sometimes glance over at the boy and see, from behind, just a hint of a rounded cheek, which meant he was smiling. But he never came to sit with us.</p>
<p class="TX">Recognizing his cheek smile one Wednesday, I impulsively called out his name and said, “Please come and join us!”</p>
<p class="TX">The boy seemed to shrink in his chair. He picked up his stack of books with both hands (it was always a stack, with him) and hurried away without looking back. I was very worried that he would not be there the following <span aria-label=" Page 61. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_61" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Wednesday, but he was. I never called out to him like that again.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">The book club rug was our safe place, a place where you could say what you thought. One day, after I shared a particular book, one that meant a lot to me, a club member spoke up to say that he had read it already and found it extremely boring. I listened to him, and he listened to me. And that was fine.</p>
<p class="TX">I am not upset when others don’t love the books I love. We each have our own book spaces inside us, and they do not match up perfectly, nor should they. The club members said goodbye that day as usual, all of us feeling like good friends.</p>
<p class="TX">A few days later, the boy came into the library. It was Saturday, and he was there first thing in the morning, carrying his returns. But instead of going straight to the book-return chute as he usually did, he carried his pile to my desk. I assumed Ms. Scoggin’s “brute bully” had ripped the cover off another one and prepared myself to reassure him. He placed the pile in front of me without a word, and I made my way through them, stamping each one with my date stamper. No ripped covers.</p>
<p class="TX">Then I saw that the last book in his pile was the very <span aria-label=" Page 62. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_62" role="doc-pagebreak"/>one I had talked about at Wednesday Book Club that week, the one I especially loved.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh!” I said, and looked up, expecting to see the top of the boy’s head, because he generally looked only at the floor. But not this time. He was looking straight at me.</p>
<p class="TX">He covered the book with one hand, fingers spread, and announced, “<i>Not</i> boring.”</p>
<p class="TX">And then, for absolutely no good reason, tears filled my eyes. I told myself not to blink.</p>
<p class="TX">For a few moments, we looked at each other, his hand still covering my book protectively.</p>
<p class="TX">And then he turned and hurried away.</p>
<p class="TX">From that day forward, the boy brought his returns to me from time to time. When he did, I knew there was a special book in his pile: a book that, for him, contained much. And I knew that when I got to it, he would simply cover it with his hand and meet my eye for a moment.</p>
<p class="TX">Not all Great Readers wish to be in a book club. There are other ways of sharing books, with very little conversation, or none at all.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>