<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Twenty-Two. Al</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch22" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch22">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 104. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_104" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch22"><b>Chapter Twenty-Two</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch22"><b>AL</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">I made apple pancakes for dinner, but last night’s supper was no cheerier than the night before. Then, because his broom remains elusive, Mr. Brock spent the rest of the evening gathering dust balls with his fingers and flinging them out the front door (which I opened for him). Ms. Scoggin and I both watched him with concern until it was time for bed.</p>
<p class="TX">This morning, Ms. Scoggin came downstairs with her librarian pin stuck to her shirt with a great amount of tape. “It was the only way!” she said, slapping it with one hand. “The impossible thing will not stay on!”</p>
<p class="TX">The dear cat has stayed outside with my little library <span aria-label=" Page 105. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_105" role="doc-pagebreak"/>for three whole days and nights now. Ms. Scoggin has stopped asking for him.</p>
<p class="TX">I feel the need to correct myself: The little library is not “mine.” Libraries are meant to grow, and to be shared.</p>
<p class="TX">Perhaps it is time for me to explain how the little free library of Martinville came to be. Well, the “how” is simple: I built it.</p>
<p class="TX">This is the <i>why</i>.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Last Sunday morning, when I arrived with Ms. Scoggin’s tea, she was already sitting up in bed with her “Librarian” badge pinned on and a dissatisfied look on her face. The moment she saw me, she sighed an enormous sigh and then started to tell me, once again, that it was time I “took my place.”</p>
<p class="TX">First thing in the morning! Every morning! And me doing nothing wrong! Me just standing there holding her tea! Try, reader, to imagine twenty years of this sort of thing. Would you not sometimes lose your patience? Would you not?</p>
<p class="TX">I shouted, “What are you even talking about? Why is <i>this</i> not my place, just as it is yours? Is this <i>your</i> house? You are just greedy!” I was shouting. <i>At Ms. Scoggin</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">I expected her to shout back. She did not!</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 106. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_106" role="doc-pagebreak"/>But she was surprised, I could tell. And—secretly pleased?</p>
<p class="TX">She said, “My dear, you are a librarian, are you not?”</p>
<p class="TX">“You know I am!” I was not done shouting, apparently. “Same as you are! But do you see me always telling you that you are in the wrong place? You do not!”</p>
<p class="TX">She stirred a sugar cube into her tea with a pinkie finger (ghosts are impervious to heat) and smiled at me. “I have Mr. Brock. You must find your <i>own</i> patrons, my dear.”</p>
<p class="TX">I threw my hands up in the air. “There is no library! In case you have forgotten!” But I was not exactly shouting anymore.</p>
<p class="TX">She gave another sigh. “We must do with what we have.” It was what she used to say in our library, when we ran out of binding glue or light bulbs. <i>We must do with what we have</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">“But we ‘have’ nothing, Ms. Scoggin. There was a massive fire, in case you have forgotten, and nothing is left. What am I supposed to do with <i>nothing?</i>”</p>
<p class="TX">She just looked at me.</p>
<p class="TX">In fact, we did not have <i>exactly</i> nothing left of our beautiful old library. We had a single library cart, and the books that happened to be on it that terrible night of the fire. But I was not sure how to be a librarian with one cart of miscellaneous books.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 107. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_107" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“And it is not <i>just</i> you,” she said gently. “We are all in the wrong place.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">I felt very confused, and knowing that my invisibility was probably at an all-time low, I hid extra well during the day’s Sunday Tour, in the very back of the broom closet. As I waited there, barely breathing, with an old brass hook prodding the back of my neck, I reminded myself that Ms. Scoggin <i>was</i> my supervisor. I must consider her advice, repetitive as it was.</p>
<p class="TX">So, that night, I went to the basement, walked past the apples and potatoes, and stood in the farthest, dimmest corner, looking at the last library cart.</p>
<p class="TX">Just then, beside the cart, something moved. I’m not proud to say I let out a yelp, imagining a snake. At the sound of my voice, a furry face appeared—the dear cat! He very sweetly stood on one of my feet, asking for a hug.</p>
<p class="TX">And then, from my arms, he hopped lightly to the library cart.</p>
<p class="TX">I stared.</p>
<p class="TX">The dear cat was exactly where he had stood on the terrible night of the fire, when I pushed him (he was just a kitten then, barely bigger than my two fists together), along with the cart of books, out of the burning library basement. To safety.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 108. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_108" role="doc-pagebreak"/>This was after I had given up trying to find Ms. Scoggin in the smoke.</p>
<p class="TX">And before I finally found the dear boy.</p>
<p class="TX">I do not mention Mr. Brock because it was after-hours. I thought all the patrons had left and did not realize he was still there.</p>
<p class="TX">It was altogether strange to be looking at that library cart after so many years. Ms. Scoggin’s words of that morning returned to me: <i>You are a librarian, are you not?</i></p>
<p class="TX">And that is when it happened. An idea began to form in my mind: <i>I would build a new library</i>. (A very small one.)</p>
<p class="TX">It had been a long time since I’d had an idea. It felt very good.</p>
<p class="TX">I did not go to bed that night. Instead, I sketched. I measured. I marked. I gathered my tools.</p>
<p class="TX">And then it was time to wake Ms. Scoggin. I would need a lookout.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">I never wondered, before the fire, whether ghosts need to sleep. They do. At least, we did. And some ghosts—like Ms. Scoggin—are very grouchy about waking up before dawn and being led to the basement before their morning tea.</p>
<p class="TX">“But why on Earth must you accomplish this task <span aria-label=" Page 109. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_109" role="doc-pagebreak"/>before <i>sunrise</i>?” she said, wiggling her bare toes on the damp basement floor. (Ghosts are impervious to damp.) She knew all about my invisibility problems, so I did not answer by saying, “Because when I am out in daylight, people are often <i>seeing</i> me!”</p>
<p class="TX">Ms. Scoggin did not know that people sometimes even spoke to me, by accident. I can only imagine the long list of Criticisms she would have for a ghost who <i>talks</i> to people.</p>
<p class="TX">But if I had not answered them, I would have felt very rude. Instead, I used the fewest words possible and got away before anyone had time to understand that they were talking to a ghost.</p>
<p class="TX">“I thought you’d be pleased,” I said to Ms. Scoggin, brandishing my hammer.</p>
<p class="TX">She looked curious and scanned the basement. When she saw the cart of library books before us, she suddenly scowled. “I do hope you plan to reshelve these books, my dear! Reshelving is a priority. Imagine a reader in search of a book finding only a blank space—as if some bully has knocked out a tooth!”</p>
<p class="TX">I reminded her, gently, that there was no library anymore.</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, yes, yes,” she said, waving at me impatiently. “I remember.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 110. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_110" role="doc-pagebreak"/>As I have said, the books before us, and the cart they sat upon, were all that were left.</p>
<p class="TX">“I am going to take care of these books,” I told her. “It is time. That is my project.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Good girl. How can I help?”</p>
<p class="TX">You could have knocked me down with a bookmark. Ms. Scoggin was offering to assist <i>me</i>? I felt quite emotional. But, in fact, that was exactly why I had brought her down there.</p>
<p class="TX">I asked her if she could whistle.</p>
<p class="TX">She could.</p>
<p class="TX">So we walked out into the night together. I pushed the cart over the grass, while the dear cat rode on top of the books, proudly facing front, as if he were sailing a ship.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>