<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Thirty-Nine. Mortimer</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch39" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch39">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 196. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_196" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch39"><b>Chapter Thirty-Nine</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch39"><b>MORTIMER</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Mortimer had waited on the History House porch while the mice chose their preferred doors and quickly disappeared inside.</p>
<p class="TX">When enough time had passed for them to have gathered in the parlor, Mortimer scratched at the front door. And waited.</p>
<p class="TX">He scratched again. And yelled, “It’s me!”</p>
<p class="TX">And waited.</p>
<p class="TX">Where in the world was Al? The mice would be wondering where he was. He scratched the door one more time.</p>
<p class="TX">Suddenly, a tiny body popped onto the porch from the crack under the door (also known as mouse door number one).</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 197. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_197" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“What’s taking so long?” Flavia demanded. “We are all by the fireplace, waiting for you to spill the matches!”</p>
<p class="TX">“I can’t get in,” Mortimer said. “I need Al to open up.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Who is <i>Al?</i> Is she the lady on the floor?”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer stared at her. “What do you mean, on the floor?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I mean <i>on the floor</i>.” Flavia flopped down to demonstrate.</p>
<p class="TX">“Maybe one of the ghosts can manage to let me in,” he said.</p>
<p class="TX">Still flat on her back, Flavia shook her head. “No ghosts in there.”</p>
<p class="TX">“No ghosts? Are you <i>sure</i>?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh yes. My hearing is excellent. Better than yours. In fact, my hearing is right now telling me that there is a human just around the corner.” And then she sat up and scuttled back under the door. “Maybe ask the human!” she shouted from the other side. “And hurry up!”</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer realized that she was right. Someone was coming down the path behind him, and then, loudly, up the porch steps.</p>
<p class="TX">It was Evan. The boy with the question-mark face. Mortimer looked up at him and tapped his paw repeatedly on the front door, hinting.</p>
<p class="TX">“Goldie!” Evan said, shining his flashlight right at him. <span aria-label=" Page 198. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_198" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“You must be locked out.” He knocked on the door, three times.</p>
<p class="TX">From inside, they heard one word. “Help!”</p>
<p class="TX">They looked at each other. Evan tried the doorknob. Locked.</p>
<p class="TX">“Should I break the glass?” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer wanted to tell him that there was a key under the mat.</p>
<p class="TX">“Don’t break the glass,” someone called out from behind them. “There’s probably a key under the doormat.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan whirled around. “<i>Dad?”</i></p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer realized that this “someone” was none other than the town exterminator, who drove around in a van that said “Mission Mouse.” What were these two doing here?</p>
<p class="TX">The ghosts were gone?</p>
<p class="TX">Al was on the floor?</p>
<p class="TX">Unexpected visitors?</p>
<p class="TX"><i>This was the problem with</i> plans, Mortimer thought. They often went sideways. He wasn’t sure how much patience an exterminator would have for the mice’s performance. They would have to get their point across very quickly, he decided. At least Al was inside. That was good. She was the one who mattered. He hoped she would get up from the floor.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 199. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_199" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Evan and his father had found the key that was indeed under the mat. They were opening the door.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer stretched his long body. He was ready. He would get to those matches before anything else could go wrong.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>