<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Nine. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch9" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch9">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 28. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_28" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch9"><b>Chapter Nine</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch9"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Evan had an old-fashioned phone in his bedroom—the kind with a big round dial on the front. He and Rafe had bought a matching pair at a yard sale with their own money. They called them “the bat phones.” Rafe wasn’t allowed to have a cell phone because his parents were afraid he would catch “cell-phone addiction.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan had finally finished his math packet and collapsed on his bed with a chocolate chip granola bar when his bat phone started to ring.</p>
<p class="TX">“I checked out the little free library after school,” Rafe said without a hello, “and I found this cool old book about growing tomatoes. I hope there’s no tomato disease my parents will tell me I might catch.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 29. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_29" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Evan told Rafe everything: about finding his dad’s name in one of the books he’d taken, and the way his dad had kind of run away after seeing it.</p>
<p class="TX">Correction: He told Rafe <i>almost</i> everything. He didn’t mention that when he got up to his room, some impulse had made him shove both books deep under his bed. He felt like maybe he’d accidentally discovered something his dad was ashamed of?</p>
<p class="TX">“Whoa,” Rafe said. “You mean, out of all the books in that box, you took your dad’s favorite one? From when he was a kid? What are the chances of <i>that</i>?”</p>
<p class="TX">That was a good question, actually. What <i>were</i> the chances? Mr. O’Neal had just finished a week of math lessons about probability. In fact, it was the “probability” math packet that was due the next day. (On the last week of school, when the <i>other</i> fifth-grade class was building pyramids out of pretzels and marshmallows.)</p>
<p class="TX">“Do you think <i>all</i> those books are from the burned-down library?” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Mine is,” Rafe said. “But there’s only one way to find out.”</p>
<p class="TX">And Evan said, “I’ll meet you.”</p>
<p class="TX">After they hung up, Evan ran through the kitchen, where his mom was chopping carrots and talking to <span aria-label=" Page 30. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_30" role="doc-pagebreak"/>another client on her headset. He mimed “going to town” by walking two fingers up his palm and pointing out the kitchen door. She gave him a thumbs-up and pointed to the carrots, which meant “be back for dinner.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Evan and Rafe didn’t need to say where they would meet, because Rafe was only allowed as far as his own corner, and so Evan always met him there. Now Rafe stood there, calling out questions while Evan worked as quickly as he could at the little free library just across the street.</p>
<p class="TX">Luckily, it was close to dinnertime and no one else was around, aside from Goldie, who seemed to be trying to send Evan a message with his endless stare: <i>What do you think you are doing?</i></p>
<p class="TX">“I’ll put them back, I promise,” Evan said. He had stacked all the books in piles on the grass and was sitting in the middle of them.</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe’s notebook was open. “How many total?” he yelled.</p>
<p class="TX">“Forty-four books!” Evan called back.</p>
<p class="TX">“Did you count twice to confirm your data?”</p>
<p class="TX">“No! I can count to forty-four, Rafe!”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 31. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_31" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Rafe nodded reluctantly. “Okay. Start looking!”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan opened the top book on the closest stack, found the circulation card, and scanned it. “Library book!” he yelled. “No Dad!”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe made a note.</p>
<p class="TX">In five minutes, Evan had checked every book. They were almost all marked <i>Martinville Library</i>. It took another two minutes to put the books back inside the little free library. When he had them nice and neat, the cat hopped up on top of it. It was a big jump.</p>
<p class="TX">“Hey, you’re not as lazy as you look,” Evan told him. “Who do you actually belong to?”</p>
<p class="TX">The cat settled himself, draping his paws possessively over the edge of the box so that they partly covered the glass doors.</p>
<p class="TX">“Okay, I’m going,” Evan said. “You can have it back.”</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Rafe was still scribbling when Evan reached him. “Okay,” Rafe said. “Out of forty-four books, forty of them are from the old Martinville Library.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan said, “People have probably already taken a bunch of them. And left a few.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Agreed. And your dad’s name was on ten cards.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 32. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_32" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Ten out of forty?” Evan said. “You don’t even need a pencil for that math.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Better to be safe, though.” Rafe shot him a smile and circled something with a flourish. “Your dad checked out exactly <i>one fourth</i> of the library books in there!”</p>
<p class="TX">“There’s something else I noticed,” Evan said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Every library book was returned on the same day.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Seriously?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah, there’s a return date stamped on the cards, like they do at school. And the last date stamped on every card is November 5, 1999. It’s weird, right?”</p>
<p class="TX">“That <i>is</i> weird. Maybe your dad knows why?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I doubt it. I mean, I guess he’s read a lot of books, but he’s not a librarian. And in 1999, he was”—Evan had to think for a second—“a teenager.”</p>
<p class="TX">“He read a <i>lot</i> of books,” Rafe said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah, well, not anymore,” Evan said. “I don’t think he has time. He’s always working.”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe nodded solemnly. “Saving the mice.”</p>
<p class="TX">“He’s not <i>saving</i> them—”</p>
<p class="TX">But Evan was cut off by a long, loud whistle, followed by two short ones. This was Rafe’s call to come home, immediately.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 33. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_33" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Rafe closed his notebook, said, “Dinner!” and was gone.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">It wasn’t until after dinner that Evan realized there was still one more library book to check for his dad’s name: <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i>. It was under his bed, with the taped-up one that his dad had read over and over. His cheek pressed to the floor, Evan fished it out and sat at his desk to open it.</p>
<p class="TX">The circulation card was there. Like all the others, the book had been returned on November 5, 1999. It had only been checked out once, and not by his father.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan reached for the phone.</p>
<p class="TX">“H. G. <i>Higgins</i>?” Rafe whispered. “<i>The</i> H. G. Higgins?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yes! Can you believe it? In Martinville!”</p>
<p class="TX">“But it must be a joke,” Rafe said.</p>
<p class="TX">“What do you mean?”</p>
<p class="TX">“You know, the book is <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i>. So, whoever borrowed it thought it would be funny to sign it out as <i>H. G. Higgins, famous mystery writer</i>. Get it?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Oh, yeah.” Evan deflated instantly. “You’re right. That was stupid of me—I guess I fell for it.”</p>
<p class="TX">“<i>Not</i> stupid,” Rafe said quickly. “You’re in detective mode. So you have to be open to every possibility.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 34. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_34" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Right.” But Evan still felt a little bit dumb.</p>
<p class="TX">“How was dinner?” Rafe asked. “Was your dad still acting weird?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan’s dad had not been at dinner. His mom said he’d been called out to a job.</p>
<p class="TX">His dad <i>was</i> saving the mice. Evan knew that.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">In bed that night, Evan looked again at the cover of <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i>. He’d had no idea there were books like this. Could a book really tell you how to write a book? No teacher had ever talked about that, not even Mr. O’Neal.</p>
<p class="TX">Lying back on his pillow, he opened it above his head and flinched. From somewhere within the pages, something had fallen lightly onto his chest. He plucked the something up.</p>
<p class="TX">It was a picture. Evan looked at it for a while and reached again for the bat phone.</p>
<p class="TX">“Rafe,” Evan said, looking at the picture. “Why didn’t they rebuild the library? After it burned down.”</p>
<p class="TX">“It probably costs a whole lot of money to build a library. And maybe it was a respect thing?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Respect? I don’t get it.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 35. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_35" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“Because, you know.”</p>
<p class="TX">“I <i>don’t</i> know. Spit it out.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Because people died in the fire?”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan’s heart gave a strange double thump.</p>
<p class="TX">“People died?”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>