<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Nineteen. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch19" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch19">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 90. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_90" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch19"><b>Chapter Nineteen</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch19"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">Evan’s phone rang while he was brushing his teeth that night. He spit and ran back to his room without rinsing.</p>
<p class="TX">“I started thinking,” Rafe said. “About what Mr. O’Neal said on the bus. And I looked up the library fire. Guess what? It burned down on the <i>exact same day</i> those books were returned. November 5, 1999. That’s the date on all the circulation cards, right?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Yeah, are you sure?”</p>
<p class="TX">“It burned down <i>that night</i>, after closing. I found an article online.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan thought about the way Mr. O’Neal had been looking at him on the school bus.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 91. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_91" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“What started the fire?”</p>
<p class="TX"><i>And why was Evan’s heart pounding?</i></p>
<p class="TX">“I don’t know.” He heard Rafe clicking on his keyboard. “It just says <i>a fatal fire of unknown origin</i>. But there’s almost nothing else about it online. All I could find was one PDF of a paragraph from an old paper. <i>Fatal fire</i>. That almost sounds like a title of an H. G. Higgins mystery, doesn’t it?”</p>
<p class="TX">It did, actually.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan grabbed the journal lying on his bed, flipped to his mystery outline, and looked at the words “CRIME,” “VICTIM,” and “SUSPECTS.”</p>
<p class="TX">Maybe this <i>was</i> that kind of mystery.</p>
<p class="TX">“Hello?” Rafe said. “You still there?”</p>
<p class="TX">“I’ll call you back.” He pulled <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i> from his backpack and found the Polaroid (which he’d been using as a bookmark).</p>
<p class="TX">His mom was right—it <i>was</i> like a really bad selfie. There was the corner of someone’s glasses, half of one brown eye, and in the background, a town.</p>
<p class="TX">Now Evan realized why he hadn’t recognized it as Martinville: There was an extra building in the picture. The library.</p>
<p class="TX">The picture was inside the book, and the book had <span aria-label=" Page 92. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_92" role="doc-pagebreak"/>been returned to the library the very day it burned down. By H. G. Higgins. Way before he was famous.</p>
<p class="TX">The picture <i>was</i> a clue. It had to be. Was it H. G. Higgins in the picture?</p>
<p class="TX">On the day before the fire?</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">Evan tried to sleep, but trying to sleep was a joke. He switched on his light and picked up <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i> from the floor next to his bed. He was up to <i>Supporting Characters</i>, which didn’t sound too scary. In fact, “supporting characters” sounded boring. Maybe they would help him get to sleep.</p>
<p class="TX">Supporting characters, the book said, included <i>everyone</i> the protagonist came into contact with during his search for the antagonist. Friends and family were supporting characters, and so were the people living and working in the town. His own mother was a supporting character, Evan realized. So was Mr. O’Neal. And Rafe, of course, along with every other kid in their class. That made him feel good. This mystery wasn’t only about him. It was about all of Martinville.</p>
<p class="TX">But then he came to this line: “Remember! Your ‘bad guy’ will probably turn out to be one of your supporting characters, but won’t be revealed as the bad guy until the end of the book.”</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 93. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_93" role="doc-pagebreak"/>He slammed the book shut.</p>
<p class="TX">What if the library fire had been started by someone he knew?</p>
<p class="TX">No. It couldn’t be anyone from Martinville.</p>
<p class="TX">Because Evan couldn’t imagine that.</p>
<p class="TX">But H. G. Higgins, or someone calling themselves that, had been at the library on the day it burned down. H. G. Higgins had returned this very book on the day of the “fatal fire.” And then, as far as anyone knew, he had never come back.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan stared again at the Polaroid. At the brown half-eye. He was starting to feel like a real protagonist in a real story.</p>
<p class="TX">H. G. Higgins, Evan decided, was his number one suspect.</p>
<p class="TX">Tomorrow, he would look for more clues.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>