<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Chapter Eight. Evan</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section aria-labelledby="ch8" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<header>
<h1 class="CHAPTER" id="ch8">
<span class="CN"><span aria-label=" Page 23. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_23" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch8"><b>Chapter Eight</b></a></span>
<span class="CT"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch8"><b>EVAN</b></a></span>
</h1>
</header>
<p class="CO">There was only a week of fifth grade left, but Mr. O’Neal worked his students to the end. Everyone complained, but Evan loved Mr. O’Neal. He made up the best math games and never forced anyone to share their journal writing if they didn’t want to.</p>
<p class="TX">When Evan thought about starting middle school next year, he sometimes got a little pain in his side. The summer was the only thing protecting him now.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">“Did you see that box of books?” he asked Rafe first thing that morning. “On the green?”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe was Evan’s best friend. They’d been in the same class every year since kindergarten.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 24. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_24" role="doc-pagebreak"/>“It’s called a little free library,” Rafe said.</p>
<p class="TX">“Weird, right? Where did it come from?”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe sighed. “I didn’t get to see it up close.”</p>
<p class="TX">Rafe was not allowed to cross Main Street by himself, which was why he hadn’t seen the box of books—the <i>little free library</i>—up close. Evan’s parents said, privately, that Rafe’s parents were “overprotective,” but Evan wasn’t supposed to know that.</p>
<p class="TX">“It smells like applesauce when you open the doors,” he told Rafe. “And Goldie was there.”</p>
<p class="TX">“Who?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Goldie. The cat from the History House.”</p>
<p class="TX">“You mean <i>Sunshine</i>. I’ll check it out after school.” Rafe was allowed to go to the town green after school, as long as he left before the crossing guard did. “Want to?”</p>
<p class="TX">“Can’t,” Evan said. “Math packet.”</p>
<p class="TX">Their math packets were due on Tuesdays. Rafe didn’t mention that he got his math packets done a lot faster than Evan did. Although that was definitely true.</p>
<hr class="transition"/>
<p class="SB1">After school, Evan dumped his books on the kitchen table, where he always did his homework. His mom walked in, talking into her telephone headset.</p>
<p class="TX">“Very good, Mr. Sloan. Now do you see the little green <span aria-label=" Page 25. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_25" role="doc-pagebreak"/>dot? Click on <i>that</i>. No? Are you sure your arrow was <i>right on top</i> of the dot? Try just one more time? Ah! Success! I knew you would get the hang of it, Mr. Sloan. You’re a natural.”</p>
<p class="TX">Everyone said she was the most patient and encouraging tech-support person in Martinville. That was why she was usually on the phone. Evan’s father had given her the headset for her last birthday.</p>
<p class="TX">She smiled at Evan and pointed to the fridge, meaning, “Have a snack.”</p>
<p class="TX">He gave her a thumbs-up and opened his math notebook.</p>
<p class="TX">An hour and a half later, he was still at the table (now covered by his books, a glass half full of milk, two empty pudding cups, and a banana peel) when he heard his father kicking off his work boots on the porch.</p>
<p class="TX">“Hey, kiddo.” His dad’s smile, when it showed up, made Evan feel like everything was going to be great, no matter what. Soon he would go into his cellar office and stay there for hours, but he always sat down with Evan for a little while first. He pulled out a kitchen chair.</p>
<p class="TX">They told each other the news of the day. It wasn’t a big-news day, but there was always <i>something</i> to say, if you thought about it. Evan told his dad about the little free library and reminded him that the fifth graders were going to visit Grantville Middle School that Wednesday. Evan’s <span aria-label=" Page 26. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_26" role="doc-pagebreak"/>dad told him about finding a family of mice in someone’s mailbox.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan had his journal open on the table, but his dad never tried to peek, which Evan appreciated.</p>
<p class="TX">“So where are these little free library books?” his dad asked, smiling again and looking around the table.</p>
<p class="TX">Evan lifted his math book to uncover them. They were <i>real</i> library books, he realized. Or they had been, once. They had those numbered stickers on the binding, like the books at school. But these were not from the library at school.</p>
<p class="TX">One was so skinny that it was barely a book. It was called <i>How to Write a Mystery Novel</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">The other one was a really beat-up book for little kids. A messy tape job made it impossible to even read the title. Evan hadn’t noticed that when he’d grabbed it.</p>
<p class="TX">He glanced up at his father, whose face was, to Evan’s surprise, bright red. First, his dad seemed frozen, but then he suddenly stood up, knocking over his chair and catching it right before it hit the floor.</p>
<p class="TX">“Dad?”</p>
<p class="TX">His father was already at the cellar door. “Lots of email to answer,” he grunted. “See you at dinner.”</p>
<p class="TX">Evan stared after him, listening to his big feet clomp down the steps. He reached for the taped-up book and <span aria-label=" Page 27. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_27" role="doc-pagebreak"/>opened it. Inside the mangled cover, there was a little pocket for the circulation card, just like inside the books at school. Except at the top of <i>this</i> card were the words <i>Martinville Library</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">That was weird. Because there <i>was</i> no Martinville Library. Not anymore. The Martinville Library, as everyone in town knew, had burned to the ground. Years and years ago.</p>
<p class="TX">He plucked the card out of its pocket. It was printed with columns for dates and names, one row for each time someone borrowed the book. The same name had been written there, again and again.</p>
<p class="TX">He flipped the card, checking front and back.</p>
<p class="TX">One name: <i>Edward McClelland</i>.</p>
<p class="TX">His <i>dad’s</i> name.</p>
<p class="TX">He looked at the cellar door, which his father had left open a crack. The sound of keyboard clicking came up the stairs. Two more mouse complaints had come in, his mom had told him. No matter how far away his father drove them, a lot of those mice seemed to find their way home.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>