<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Mortimer’s Epilogue</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:0d0cbc3e-e02b-4137-a51f-1b25d2b430b0" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="epi" epub:type="epilogue" role="doc-epilogue">
<header>
<h1 class="CT" id="epi"><span aria-label=" Page 207. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_207" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a href="contents.xhtml#c_mor" id="mor"><b>MORTIMER’S EPILOGUE</b></a></h1>
</header>
<p class="CD"><b>At the ten o’clock movie</b></p>
<p class="CO1">Mortimer sat next to Petunia, tired but happy. The walk to Grantville had been a long one for an old cat.</p>
<p class="TX">They were in the projector room, behind a large square window, ready to watch the movie. Below them, the audience sat in plush red velvet chairs, eating popcorn.</p>
<p class="TX">Every once in a while, Petunia would tap him on the ear with her paw and whisper, “Mortimer! Is it really you?”</p>
<p class="TX">And, each time, Mortimer said, “Petunia, it’s really me.”</p>
<p class="TX">His heart was full and happy. And quiet.</p>
<p class="TX">The popcorn smelled so good. Mortimer understood why the mice wished they could have some. He planned to talk to Petunia about that.</p>
<p class="TX"><span aria-label=" Page 208. " epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_208" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The lights dimmed.</p>
<p class="TX">“It’s starting!” Petunia whispered.</p>
<p class="TX">Mortimer noticed two figures hurrying to seat themselves in the first row of plush red chairs. One of them carried a box of popcorn.</p>
<p class="TX">They held hands through the whole movie and didn’t get up when it ended. They seemed ready to watch it all over again.</p>
<p class="TX">As Mortimer watched, one of the figures appeared to float out of her chair, just a little, and then quickly settle down again.</p>
<p class="TX"><i>Could it be?</i> Mortimer decided to observe them more closely.</p>
<p class="TX">But Petunia was finished with sitting still.</p>
<p class="TX">“Chase me, Mortimer!” she called out. “Chase me!”</p>
<p class="TX">And Mortimer did.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>